---
title: Release Notes 22.1.2
---
**Release date**: 25/05/2022

**Pack version**: 22.1.2


## Fixed issues

### EPL-309
#### No sequences are obtained from the parent organization if the organization does not have one configured

**Error's description**
When generating a new document to obtain the sequence, the context organization is used and in case there is not one, the sequence of the parent organization should be used.

**Steps to reproduce the error**
1. Login as F&B International Group Admin (Organization: F&B España, Region Norte)
2. Go to Document Sequences window
3. Filter for (F&B España - Region Norte, Order-Document No., Standard Order) and delete records.
4. Filter for (F&B España S.A., Order-Document No., Standard Order) and delete records.
5. Go to Sales Order and create a new record.
6. Check that no header field is rendered

**Expected behavior**
In the DocumentNo. field, you should set the sequence corresponding to F&B International Group Admin

**Affected Version**
Etendo 21.4.3
Etendo 22.1.1

### EPL-118
#### Filter nexus credentials in Setup task and only declare nexus credentials in gradle.properties

**Error's description**
When the setup task is executed and the credentials are configured in the gradle.properties, they are copied to the Openbravo.properties.
Also, refactor the code to only use nexusUser and nexusPassword.

**Steps to reproduce the error**
Add nexus credentials in build.gradle  and execute ./gradlew setup task.

**Expected behavior**
The credentials must not  be added  in Openbravo properties file

**Affected Version**
22Q1.1  >> Plugin 1.0.0

**Solution Design (optional)**
Create a filter in the plugin to avoid copying the credentials.

### EPL-242
#### Modify the folder where the war is created if the core is in Jars.

**Error's description**
 If the core is in JAR, generate the “etendo.war” file in build/etendo/libs instead of  libs/

**Steps to reproduce the error**
- In a Etendo base, add the Core jar dependency in the ‘build.gradle': 

```
dependencies {
    implementation 'com.etendoerp.platform:etendo-core:22.1.1'
}
```

- Verify that the Core in jars is resolved correctly (build/etendo dir)
- Configure your credentials and run the ./gradlew setup
- Install the environment ./gradlew install
- run the antWar task: ./gradlew antWar
- The ant war file should be created in the lib dir of the root project

**Expected behavior**
The etendo.war file should be in libs/ insted of build/etendo/libs 

**Affected Version**
22Q1.1 >> Plugin 1.0.0

**Solution Design (optional)**
Change the build.xml files to point to the lib root project depending on if the core is in JARs or SOURCES.