---
search:
  exclude: true
---

![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  Category:Developers Guide

Welcome to the Openbravo ERP developers guide! This developers guide contains
a wealth of information on how to change, extend and build further on
Openbravo ERP. The developers guide provides valuable information for
consultants and developers from junior to expert levels.

##  What's new in Openbravo 3.0

Considering all the new features we deliver in the 3.0 release it seems better
to ask what's not new in this radical new release of Openbravo!

The most visible change: Openbravo 3.0 offers a completely new agile  user
experience  on a new  platform  implementing a Rich Internet Application (RIA)
architecture.

With the new user interface, software developers have a much wider range of
options to implement solutions. Functionality can be delivered on both the
client and/or the server. The new architecture follows de-facto industry
standards (  CDI  ,  JSON  ) and builds upon  professional  user interface
technology.

A distinctive benefit of the new architecture is that, in many cases,
consultants can change the user interface without stopping or rebuilding the
system. New windows/tabs/fields can be added to the system without an explicit
rebuild step.

On the server side we build further upon the successfull  Data_Access_Layer
delivered in 2.50. In 3.00 we integrated a new server side component based on
Weld  . With Weld, Openbravo supports  JSR-299  : Java Contexts and Dependency
Injection for the Java EE platform (CDI). One of the great new features is the
possibility for modules to register  business event handlers  which are called
when entities are created, deleted or updated in the database.

Many parts of the application are new and redesigned, still we maintained and
kept classic parts of the system which are vital for delivering professional,
complete and robust functionality. This means for example that even with the
new user interface we are backward compatible with classic code. Software
vendors and partners have the option to  gradually transfer  their existing
modules to the new architecture.

##  What's your focus?

If your first focus is to get a **general understanding** of Openbravo
technology then it is a good idea to start with the  Openbravo Concepts
Overview  , it describes the main philosophies forming the foundation of
Openbravo 3.0. For more details on Openbravo architecture take a look at the
Openbravo architecture  page (front-end technology) and the  Data Access Layer
wiki page (server side technology).

When **starting development** with Openbravo be sure to visit the
prerequisite knowledge  article and  How-to  sections, start out with  setting
up Eclipse IDE  , understand  howto create and package a module  , learn more
about the  Openbravo 3  architecture and then move on to one of the howtos to
add new buttons to the  navigationbar  or  toolbar  ,  implement entity
listeners  or build complete  new views  from scratch.

As a **consultant** configuring and changing windows and tabs it is a good
idea to understand the introductionary parts of the  Openbravo architecture  ,
then move further on to  creating a table  ,  adding new windows  or  adapting
a current window  .

As an **integrator** you want to check out the support for REST webservices by
Openbravo. Openbravo both supports  XML  and  JSON  REST webservices and there
are  howto's  to help you to use existing and implement new webservices.

When you are ready with your development and **ready to deliver** then
Openbravo provides a great delivery platform:  modularity  and the  Openbravo
Forge  . The  how-to  section contains several articles on  packaging  and
delivering  your modules.

We at Openbravo work with and develop in the Openbravo system continuously. We
are **developers** and know that sometimes a specific tip or trick can make
the difference. Therefore, we combined our experience and the experience of
our users and collegeaus in the  Tips and Tricks  document. If you need more
help then be sure to visit the  Openbravo Forums  .

Finally as an **experienced developer** visit the  Reference  section. It will
provide you with all the details to finetune and finalize your solution.

##  Structure of this guide

This guide consists of different categories.

The  How-to  sections describe Openbravo development topics using a focused
development goal. There are how-tos on modularity, extending the datamodel,
adding windows and webservices, the data access layer and more.

The  Concepts  section gives a detailed description of all relevant Openbravo
ERP development concepts. The content ranges from common development topics
(such as the project structure, build tasks) to modularity and the application
dictionary. Each of the main layers of the application is discussed: database,
middle-tier and web-tier with webservices.

The  Reference  section consists of a detailed description of the data model
from different points of view: the database model, the entity model, the
hibernate mapping and the REST XML Schema. In addition javadoc and other
reference-like topics are discussed in this section.

The  Examples  section contains examples of existing code in the Openbravo ERP
application. The purpose of this chapter is to give directions for the reader
to study current Openbravo code and use that as the basis for own custom code

Finally the  Tips and Tricks  section contains troubleshooting tips. The tips
and tricks are based on experience and user questions and solutions in the
forums.

![DevGuide Wiki
Categories.png](http://wiki.openbravo.com/w/images/thumb/2/2d/DevGuide_Wiki_Categories.png/640px-
DevGuide_Wiki_Categories.png)

##  Subcategories

This category has the following 6 subcategories, out of 6 total.

###  C

  * [ **+** ]  Concepts  (46) 

###  D

  * [ **+** ]  Data Model  (502) 

###  E

  * [ **+** ]  Example  (4) 

###  H

  * [ **+** ]  HowTo  (103) 

###  P

  * [ **+** ]  Performance  (7) 

###  R

  * [ **+** ]  Reference  (4) 

Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/Category:Developers_Guide  "

This page has been accessed 152,981 times. This page was last modified on 7
June 2012, at 13:27. Content is available under  Creative Commons Attribution-
ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
****

