![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  Category:HowTo

The Openbravo how-tos describe Openbravo development topics using a focused
development goal.

The  first how-to  on creating and packaging a module is **important** for all
other how-tos as it describes the steps which must be done before another how-
to can be executed.

When you need to setup your development environment it makes sense to start
with the  how-to setup the Eclipse IDE  howto. It explains how to download and
configure the development projects so you can run Openbravo locally on your
development machine.

And ofcourse we all should do  test-driven development  , so make sure to look
at this howto:  How_to_create_testcases  .

All how-tos follow a common structure:

  1. Start with the definition of the objective of the how-to 
  2. Describe the steps of the how-to 
  3. Present the achieved result of the how-to 

##  Contents

  * 1  Visualization 
  * 2  Windows, tabs and fields, reports and alerts 
  * 3  Data model - Database 
  * 4  Client side development 
  * 5  Server side development 
  * 6  Web services 
  * 7  Modularity 
  * 8  Migration - Classic User Interface 
  * 9  Other Topics 

  
---  
  
##  Visualization

Openbravo is fully skinnable making it possible to change the colours, icons
etc. through your own module. The  create a new skin  how to explains how to
adapt the current visualization in a custom module.

##  Windows, tabs and fields, reports and alerts

Openbravo Windows can be configured and changed without rebuilding the
application, or can be fully customized using a modular approach. There are
several how-tos which give a great insight in the customizability of Openbravo
ranging from small changes to a window to complete new windows:

  * Create  or  Change  a window: how to add a new window to the system through the application dictionary or change an existing one 
  * How_to_add_a_field_to_a_Window_Tab  : describes how to add a new field to an existing window 
  * How_to_add_a_canvas_field_to_a_Form_or_Grid  : add a calculated field or button as a field/column in the Form/Grid 
  * How to create client side callout onchange function 
  * How_to_create_a_Callout  : a callout adds logic to a field which is executed when the field is accessed/changed in the user interface 
  * How_to_create_a_Navigation_Bar_Component  : with a small coding effort in java and javascript you can add new buttons to the main navigation bar 
  * How_to_add_a_button_to_the_toolbar  : buttons can be added to the toolbar shown in form/grid view for specific windows 
  * How_to_implement_a_new_main_view  : helps you to create a completely new custom view using client side javascript 
  * How to create a Report  : define a new report through the Openbravo user interface 
  * How_to_create_an_Alert  : alerts are used to notify users of changes in business data 
  * How_to_use_property_fields  : how to show related information in a grid/form and to show a child table in the top of a window 
  * How To Define Display Logic For Tabs  : how a tab can be shown or hidden based on field values 
  * How_to_define_Display_Logic_Evaluated_at_Server_Level  : how a field can be hidden in view definition based on preferences at view generation time 
  * How_to_add_a_rich_text_field_and_column  : how to add a rich text field and column 
  * How_to_add_a_masked_text_field  : how to create a masked field in a tab 
  * How_to_embed_a_Widget_into_a_Window_Tab  : widgets can also be included within forms 
  * How_to_retrieve_parents_node_by_level_in_a_tree  : how to retrieve parents node by level in a tree 
  * How_to_automatically_populate_search_keys  : how to Automatically Populate Search Keys 
  * How_to_create_client_event_handler_actions  : how to create client side event handlers (pre/post save) 

##  Data model - Database

Openbravo's data model can easily be extended to accomodate for new
requirements. Changes in the data model are automatically propagated to the
rest of the system. Meaning that important Openbravo functionality is out-of-
the-box available for your new tables and columns. For example, your new
tables are automatically available through the REST webservices, entities are
generated and new windows can be defined.

The following how-tos give insight in the development steps involved in
changing the data model:

  * How_to_create_a_Table  : helps you to add a new table to the system 
  * How_to_add_Columns_to_a_Table  : describes adding new columns to an existing table using modularity 
  * How_to_create_a_Computed_Column  : Openbravo allows you to define columns which are computed using a sql expression, these columns do not exist in the datbase schema but are computed when reading a record from the database. 

And there are several how-to's focusing on database oriented development:

  * How_to_create_a_Trigger  : although most of the logic should be implemented in java using the  Data Access Layer  , it is still possible to develop logic in the database using triggers, this how-to helps you here 
  * How_to_create_a_Stored_Procedure  : stored procedures are one of the mechanisms Openbravo provides to implement business logic. Stored procedures are executed by the database engine and are implemented in the standard PL/pgSQL (for PostgreSQL) or PL/SQL (for Oracle) language. 
  * How_to_use_an_Extension_Point  : the extension point concept allows a module to extend/plug in their own custom behavior inside existing stored procedures 
  * How_to_add_a_Constraint  : gives an example of adding a constraint to an existing column 
  * How_to_define_an_on_Create_Default  : helpfull for when initializing data when creating new records 
  * how-to-exclude-database-physical-objects-from-model  : if you want to prevent certain database elements to show up in the application dictionary 

##  Client side development

In Openbravo 3.0 it is now possible to develop code which runs on the client
(browser) and adapt the client side logic through modules. Before working
through a howto it can make sense to take a look at the documentation on
client side development  . The following howtos describe different client side
development topics:

  * How_to_add_a_button_to_the_toolbar  : describes how to add a new button with server side actions to the toolbar shown in forms and grids 
  * How_to_create_a_Navigation_Bar_Component  : helps you to add a new component to the main navigation bar shown in the top of the application 
  * How_to_implement_a_new_main_view  : develop a completely new totally custom view which can be opened from the menu and quick launch 

##  Server side development

Openbravo offers a complete environment on the server to implement your own
business logic. Openbravo automatically takes care of most infrastructure
tasks for you, but you can override existing behavior where needed! There are
many how-tos on server side development:

  * **Data Access Layer** articles: the following articles explain how to work with Data Access Layer (DAL) 
    * How_to_work_with_the_Data_Access_Layer  : a quick introduction into the  Data Access Layer 
    * How_to_implement_a_business_event_handler  : implement your own business logic when entities are updated/deleted/inserted, trigger-like support 
    * How_to_develop_a_DAL_background_process  : develop a process which is run in the background at preset intervals 
    * How_to_do_a_complex_query_using_the_DAL-1  : describes how a complex SQL query can be done using HQL 
    * How_to_do_a_complex_query_using_the_DAL-2  : another example, giving insight in how to translate SQL to HQL 
    * How_to_call_a_stored_procedure_from_the_DAL  : calling the database in the same transaction as your server side logic 
  * **Process Definition** : these how to's explain how different kinds of _Process Definitions_ are implemented: 
    * How to create a Standard Process Definition  : how to create a Standard Process definition with parameter defined in Application Dictionary 
    * How_to_create_a_Pick_and_Execute_Process  : how to create a Pick and Execute process 
    * How_to_create_a_Manual_UI_Process  : how to create a Manual UI Process 
    * How_to_create_a_Multi_Selector  : how to create a Multi Selector to be used as parameter in a Process Definition. 
    * How_to_create_a_Report_using_Process_Definition 
  * **Background Processes** : how background processes are created. 
    * How_to_create_a_Background_Process  : describes how the class defined in the previous how-to can be scheduled through the Openbravo user interface 
    * How_to_create_a_Java_Process  : describes the structure of a java class which can be run as a process in the background 
  * **Trees** : these how to's explain how to create new tree types within modules: 
    * How_to_Define_a_Table_as_a_Tree  : allows to show the _Tree Grid View_ and makes the table available to create a _Tree Selector_ . 
    * How_to_Create_a_Tree_Selector  : allows to define a reference to a _Tree Table_ . 
    * How_to_Restrict_the_Movements_of_Nodes_in_a_Tree  : defines the logic to handle the hierarchical structure in a tree. 
    * How_to_Create_a_Custom_Tree  : allows to create tree having a different data structure to the default ones ( ` AD_Tree_Node ` or _Link to Parent_ ). 
  * **Tables** : tables are used as origin of data to populate grids in standard windows and processes. By default they are based on database tables. But in some cases it makes sense to implement a different definition: 
    * How_to_create_a_Table  : standard one based on a database table 
    * How_to_create_a_HQL_Based_Table  : tables defined based on a query. 
    * How_to_Create_a_Table_Based_on_a_User_Defined_Datasource  : completelly implemented in Java, it allows to retrieve data from any source. 

  * How_to_implement_a_new_Discount_and_Promotion_Type  : how to define and implement a new Discount and Promotion Type. 
  * How to Create Your Own Import Process with IDL  : how to implement an IDL process. 
  * How_to_send_emails_on_events  : how to send events to send email and how to listen to those events. 
  * How_to_implement_Create_New_In_Selectors  : explains how to implement a selector that is also able to create new recods. 

##  Web services

Openbravo automatically provides webservices on the complete data model. If
you add new tables/columns to Openbravo then they are automatically available
through the REST webservices. Openbravo supports multiple technologies:  XML
and  JSON  . You can also add new webservices to Openbravo, this is explained
in this  how-to  .

##  Modularity

Openbravo provides a complete infrastructure to work with modules and package
your modules including related data. Several related topics are discussed in
the

  * How_To_Create_and_Package_a_Module  : helps you to package your functionality in a module 
  * How_to_publish_a_Module  : to make your modules available to the Openbravo community 
  * How_to_create_a_Dataset  : describes how to add data to your module 
  * How_To_Create_a_Configuration_Script  : to adapt existing modules, or even the core module 
  * How_to_create_build_validations_and_module_scripts  : create scripts which validate the module environment or scripts that are run when a module is installed 

##  Migration - Classic User Interface

Openbravo 2.50 is widely used and a common scenario is to upgrade from 2.50 to
3.00. At Openbravo we have paid specific attention to support existing
modules, logic and concepts. This  how to  helps you to migrate your existing
code from 2.50 to 3.00.

Openbravo 3.00 allows you to run specific windows in classic mode within the
new layout or even still run the application completely in classic mode, see
this  how-to  .

The dbsourcemanager is a critical component of Openbravo. It is responsible
for updating the database when installing modules and upgrading. As Openbravo
continuously improves the dbsourcemanager it can be very helpfull to use the
latest version of this component in older versions of Openbravo. This  how-to
describes how to do this.

  

##  Other Topics

Articles in this section cover miscellaneous topics related to Openbravo
development:

  * How_To_Log  . Guides about how and what to log. 
  * How To Configure Log  . Explains how log file is configured and how to change debug level for a class/package. 
  * How_To_Upgrade_a_Library  . Describes the process to upgrade or include a new library. 

##  Pages in category "HowTo"

The following 103 pages are in this category, out of 103 total.

###  H

  * How Price Including Taxes are Calculated 
  * How To Call An Openbravo Webservice From Java 
  * How To Change The Size of a Column 
  * How To Configure Log 
  * How To Configure Log Using Log4j1.x 
  * How To Create An Import Process With Images 
  * How To Create a Configuration Script 
  * How To Create a Trigger 
  * How To Create and Package a Module 
  * How To Define Display Logic For Tabs 
  * How To Enable Customization Of The Login Page 
  * How To Exclude Database Physical Objects From Model 
  * How To Implement FICExtension Hook 
  * How To Implement JsonDataServiceExtraActions Hook 
  * How To Log 
  * How To Log Using Log4j1.x 
  * How To Modularize The Location Selector 
  * How To Partially Protest A Remittance 
  * How To Setup ESLint And Prettier In Your IDE 
  * How To Switch to Classic Mode 
  * How To Upgrade a Library 
  * How to Change Fonts in Openbravo Reports 
  * How to Create And Update Business Entities Using Web Services 
  * How to Create Your Own Import Process with IDL 
  * How to Create a Custom Tree 
  * How to Create a Table Based on a User Defined Datasource 
  * How to Create a Tree Selector 
  * How to Create a Window 
  * How to Create an External Connection Pool 
  * How to Create new attachment method 
  * How to Define a Table as a Tree 
  * How to Define the Timeout of a Query 
  * How to Migrate 2.50 Modules to 3.0 
  * How to Migrate Sources Format (since 3.0PR19Q1) 
  * How to Print Reports with Subreports 

|

###  H cont.

  * How to Restrict the Movements of Nodes in a Tree 
  * How to Use an External Connection Pool 
  * How to add Columns to a Table 
  * How to add a Constraint 
  * How to add a button to the toolbar 
  * How to add a canvas field to a Form or Grid 
  * How to add a field to a Window Tab 
  * How to add a masked text field 
  * How to add a rich text field and column 
  * How to automatically populate search keys 
  * How to call a stored procedure from the DAL 
  * How to change an existing Report 
  * How to change an existing Window 
  * How to create JUnit testcases 
  * How to create Jest testcases 
  * How to create QUnit testcases 
  * How to create a Background Process 
  * How to create a Callout 
  * How to create a Computed Column 
  * How to create a Dataset 
  * How to create a Datasource Widget 
  * How to create a HQL Based Table 
  * How to create a Java Based Process 
  * How to create a Manual UI Process 
  * How to create a Multi Selector 
  * How to create a Navigation Bar Component 
  * How to create a New Skin 
  * How to create a Pick and Execute Process 
  * How to create a QueryList Widget 
  * How to create a Report 
  * How to create a Report using Process Definition 
  * How to create a Report with iReport 
  * How to create a Standard Process Definition 
  * How to create a Stored Procedure 
  * How to create a Table 

|

###  H cont.

  * How to create a Trigger 
  * How to create a callout that extends from another callout 
  * How to create a navigation rule 
  * How to create a new REST webservice 
  * How to create an Alert 
  * How to create build validations and module scripts 
  * How to create client event handler actions 
  * How to create client side callout onchange function 
  * How to create testcases 
  * How to define Display Logic Evaluated at Server Level 
  * How to define an on Create Default 
  * How to develop a DAL background process 
  * How to do a complex query using the DAL-1 
  * How to do a complex query using the DAL-2 
  * How to embed a Widget into a Window Tab 
  * How to exclude Database Physical Objects From Model 
  * How to export sample data 
  * How to implement Create New In Selectors 
  * How to implement a business event handler 
  * How to implement a new Discount and Promotion Type 
  * How to implement a new main view 
  * How to migrate reports and processes to new Cost Engine 
  * How to publish a Module 
  * How to retrieve parents node by level in a tree 
  * How to sell a module 
  * How to send emails on events 
  * How to setup Eclipse IDE 
  * How to setup Visual Studio Code IDE 
  * How to use a new version of DBSourceManager 
  * How to use an Extension Point 
  * How to use property fields 

###  M

  * Modules:How to create a Carrier Integration Module 

###  Q

  * QA Sampledata Export 

|  
---|---|---|---  
  
Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/Category:HowTo  "

This page has been accessed 144,273 times. This page was last modified on 21
July 2017, at 09:50. Content is available under  Creative Commons Attribution-
ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  Developers Guide

**

