---
search:
  exclude: true
---

![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  How to create a Manual UI Process

##  Contents

  * 1  Introduction 
  * 2  Example Module 
  * 3  Steps to implement the Process 
    * 3.1  Overview 
    * 3.2  Implementation 
      * 3.2.1  Defining the Processes 
      * 3.2.2  Adding a button to Sales Order 
        * 3.2.2.1  Create a Column 
        * 3.2.2.2  Create a Field 
      * 3.2.3  JavaScript Implementation 
      * 3.2.4  Java Implementation 
  * 4  Testing the Process 
  * 5  Advanced Topics 
    * 5.1  Manual Parameter Window 
    * 5.2  Read Only and Display Logic 
    * 5.3  Security 

  
---  
  
##  Introduction

_Manual UI Pattern Process_ is an implememtation for the new process
definition in Openbravo 3 (see also  How to create a Pick and Execute Process
). It allows to code the whole UI with SmartClient, it can be used when
default generated UI doesn't fit the needs of the process.

This how to will add 2 new Manual UI Processes associated with the Sales Order
window.

The implementation requires development experience. See the following concept
pages for background information on action handlers and javascript
development:

  * Action Handler 
  * Client_Side_Development_and_API 
  * JavaScript_Coding_Conventions 

It also makes sense to study the following page:  Openbravo_3_Architecture  .

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-guides/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |  The
Manual UI Processes explained in this how to, is available from **3.0MP12**  
---|---  
  
##  Example Module

This howto is supported by an example module which shows examples of the code
shown and discussed.

The code of the example module can be downloaded from this mercurial
repository:
https://code.openbravo.com/erp/mods/org.openbravo.client.application.examples/

The example module is available through the Central Repository (See 'Client
Application Examples'), for more information see the  Examples Client
Application  project page.

##  Steps to implement the Process

###  Overview

In this how to we will create 2 processes that will be shown as 2 buttons in
Sales Order window. Each of them implements a Manual UI Process. First of the
buttons sums 1 to a new field (Total example) and the second one subtract 1 to
the same field. Both can be executed for multiple records at the same time.

Manual UI Processes are implemented by a JavaScript function that is invoked
when the button associated is clicked. This function is in charge of managing
the whole process including UI.

###  Implementation

####  Defining the Processes

Let's create 2 similar processes: one for summing and another one for
subtracting.

  * Create a new record in Process Definition window 
  * Define the UI pattern: Manual 
  * Set the Handler: JavaScript function to be invoked when executing the process 
  * Mark Multi Record: this allows to execute the process for several records at the same time. 

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_create_a_Manual_UI_Process-1.png){: .legacy-image-style}

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_create_a_Manual_UI_Process-2.png){: .legacy-image-style}

####  Adding a button to Sales Order

#####  Create a Column

As you know, you required to have a new column to associated it to a button.

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-guides/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |  You
can check other how-to if you are not confident with this process, e.g.
How_to_add_a_field_to_a_Window_Tab  
---|---  
  
In this case we are going to create 3 new columns in C_Order table: 1 for each
of the buttons and another one just to visualize the results.

  * Create the new columns in the C_Order table. PostgreSQL syntax: 

    
    
    ALTER TABLE c_order ADD COLUMN em_obexapp_sum_proc character varying(1);
    ALTER TABLE c_order ADD COLUMN em_obexapp_subs_proc character varying(1);
    ALTER TABLE c_order ADD COLUMN em_obexapp_total numeric;

  * Go to: Tables and Columns 
  * Open the C_Order record 
  * Execute: **Create Columns from DB** process 
  * Move to the Columns Tab 
  * Pick the newly created _em_obexapp_subs_proc_ column 
  * Change the reference to Button 
  * Pick your defined Subtract process 
  * Repeat last steps for sum column and process 

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_create_a_Manual_UI_Process-4.png){: .legacy-image-style}

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_create_a_Manual_UI_Process-5.png){: .legacy-image-style}

#####  Create a Field

  * Go to Windows, Tabs and Fields 
  * Search for Sales Order 
  * Select Header tab 
  * Execute Create Fields to add new fields for your columns 

####  JavaScript Implementation

As mentioned above, Manual UI Processes are implemented by a JavaScript
function. Now it is time to write that. In this how to we will focus on the
JavaScript itself, to learn how to add new static JavaScript files in your
module, you can read  Component provider section in this how to  .

In MP27 a change was done so that the grid would not load all the properties
for each record, just the ones that are being shown. This means that the data
related to columns that are not visible in the grid might not be available in
the javascript function. Because of this, the best practice is to just send
the record id, which is always available, to the backend process. There you
have access to all the properties of the record.

    
    
     
    OB.OBEXAPP = OB.OBEXAPP || {};
     
    OB.OBEXAPP.Process = {
      execute: function (params, view) {
        var i, selection = params.button.contextView.viewGrid.getSelectedRecords(),
            orders = [],
            callback;
     
        callback = function (rpcResponse, data, rpcRequest) {
          // show result
          isc.say(OB.I18N.getLabel('Obexapp_Updated', [data.updated]));
     
          // refresh the whole grid after executing the process
          params.button.contextView.viewGrid.refreshGrid();
        };
     
        for (i = 0; i < selection.length; i++) {
          orders.push(selection[i].id);
        };
     
        OB.RemoteCallManager.call('org.openbravo.client.application.examples.ManualProcessActionHandler', {
          orders: orders,
          action: params.action
        }, {}, callback);
      },
     
      sum: function (params, view) {
        params.action = 'sum';
        OB.OBEXAPP.Process.execute(params, view);
      },
     
      subtract: function (params, view) {
        params.action = 'subtract';
        c.Process.execute(params, view);
      }
    };

We are defining _sum_ and _subtract_ function within _OB.OBEXAPP.Process_
object. Note these are the functions we previously set as handlers for the 2
processes we created. They receive as parameters _params_ which is an object
containing the button invoking the process among other things, and the _view_
the button is in. These 2 functions call _execute_ method.

The _execute_ method does the following:

  * Obtains the list of selected records (remember we defined these processes to be able to be ran from several records at the same time): _params.button.contextView.viewGrid.getSelectedRecords()_
  * Send them to a Java action handler 
  * callback function receives ActionHanlder response, prints it, and refreshes the whole grid with _params.button.contextView.viewGrid.refreshGrid()_

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-guides/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |
**Note about refresh after execution** . Prior to _PR15Q1_ the way to refresh
after execution was ` params.button.closeProcessPopup() ` , this method
refreshed the whole grid. In order to improve performance the behavior of this
function was changed to refresh only the selected record. In case whole grid
is required to be refreshed after executing the process `
params.button.contextView.viewGrid.refreshGrid ` should be invoked instead.  
---|---  
  
####  Java Implementation

In this example we are implementing the backend process as an ActionHandler.

As mentioned earlier you should be confident with the concept of an  action
handler  .

  

    
    
     
    package org.openbravo.client.application.examples;
     
    import java.util.Map;
     
    import org.codehaus.jettison.json.JSONArray;
    import org.codehaus.jettison.json.JSONObject;
    import org.openbravo.base.exception.OBException;
    import org.openbravo.client.kernel.BaseActionHandler;
    import org.openbravo.dal.service.OBDal;
    import org.openbravo.model.common.order.Order;
     
    public class ManualProcessActionHandler extends BaseActionHandler {
     
      @Override
      protected JSONObject execute(Map<String, Object> parameters, String data) {
        try {
          final JSONObject jsonData = new JSONObject(data);
          final JSONArray orderIds = jsonData.getJSONArray("orders");
          final String action = jsonData.getString("action");
     
          for (int i = 0; i < orderIds.length(); i++) {
            final String orderId = orderIds.getString(i);
     
            // get the order
            final Order order = OBDal.getInstance().get(Order.class, orderId);
     
            // and add or subtract 1
            Long originalValue = order.getObexappTotal();
            if (originalValue == null) {
              originalValue = 0L;
            }
     
            Long finalValue;
            if ("sum".equals(action)) {
              finalValue = originalValue + 1L;
            } else {
              finalValue = originalValue - 1L;
            }
     
            order.setObexappTotal(finalValue);
          }
     
          JSONObject result = new JSONObject();
          result.put("updated", orderIds.length());
     
          return result;
        } catch (Exception e) {
          throw new OBException(e);
        }
      }
    }

This class just receives an array of sales order IDs, iterates over it adding
or sustracting 1 to total field.

##  Testing the Process

Since you have changed the structure of some Entity by adding new columns, you
need to rebuild generated classes ( _ant smarbuild_ ) and restart the tomcat
server.

  * After restarting, you should be able to go to the Sales Order window and see a new field and 2 new buttons that are shown when there is at least a selected record. 

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_create_a_Manual_UI_Process-7.png){: .legacy-image-style}

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_create_a_Manual_UI_Process-8.png){: .legacy-image-style}

  * When clicking the button, the process is executed and a popup indicating how many records have been affected is shown. 

##  Advanced Topics

###  Manual Parameter Window

Sometimes we may need to use a parameter window, to provide additional data to
the process. For Manual UI Processes, this window have to be coded manually.

Following the previous example, we are going to create a window with:

  * A parameter: a date field 
  * Two buttons: one to execute the process and the other one just to cancel and close the window. 

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_create_a_Manual_UI_Process-9.png){: .legacy-image-style}

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_create_a_Manual_UI_Process-10.png){: .legacy-image-style}

First of all we have to create our parameter window, that will extend
Openbravo OBPopup class:

    
    
     
    // Define a class that extends OBPopup
    isc.defineClass('OBEXAPP_ParameterPopup', isc.OBPopup);
     
    isc.OBEXAPP_ParameterPopup.addProperties({
      width: 320,
      height: 200,
      title: null,
      showMinimizeButton: false,
      showMaximizeButton: false,
      
      view: null,
      params: null,
      actionHandler: null,
      orders: null,
      
      mainform: null,
      okButton: null,
      cancelButton: null,
      
      initWidget: function () {
    	
        // Form that contains the parameters
        this.mainform = isc.DynamicForm.create({
          numCols: 1,
          fields: [{
    	    name: 'Date',
                title: OB.I18N.getLabel('OBEXAPP_Dialog.DATE_TITLE'),
    	    height: 20,
    	    width: 200,
    	    type: '_id_15' //Date reference
    	  }]
        });
    	
        // OK Button
        this.okButton = isc.OBFormButton.create({
          title: OB.I18N.getLabel('OBEXAPP_Dialog.OK_BUTTON_TITLE'),
          popup: this,
          action: function () {
            var callback = function (rpcResponse, data, rpcRequest) {
              // show result
              isc.say(OB.I18N.getLabel('Obexapp_Updated', [data.updated]));
     
              // close process to refresh current view
              rpcRequest.clientContext.popup.closeClick();
            };
     
            OB.RemoteCallManager.call(this.popup.actionHandler, {
              orders: this.popup.orders,
              action: this.popup.params.action,
              dateParam: this.popup.mainform.getField('Date').getValue(), //send the parameter to the server too
            }, {}, callback, {popup: this.popup}); 
          }
       });
       
       // Cancel Button
       this.cancelButton = isc.OBFormButton.create({
         title: OB.I18N.getLabel('OBEXAPP_Dialog.CANCEL_BUTTON_TITLE'),
         popup: this,
         action: function () {
           this.popup.closeClick();
         }
       }); 
       
       //Add the elements into a layout   
       this.items = [
         isc.VLayout.create({
           defaultLayoutAlign: "center",
           align: "center",
           width: "100%",
           layoutMargin: 10,
           membersMargin: 6,
           members: [
             isc.HLayout.create({
               defaultLayoutAlign: "center",
               align: "center",
               layoutMargin: 30,
               membersMargin: 6,
               members: this.mainform
             }), 
             isc.HLayout.create({
               defaultLayoutAlign: "center",
               align: "center",
               membersMargin: 10,
               members: [this.okButton, this.cancelButton]
             })
           ]
         })
       ];
       
       this.Super('initWidget', arguments);
      }
     
    });

Now in our process, instead of calling directly to the action handler, we fill
and open our custom parameter window first:

    
    
     
    OB.OBEXAPP.Process = {
      execute: function (params, view) {
        var i, selection = params.button.contextView.viewGrid.getSelectedRecords(),
            orders = [],
            callback;
     
        for (i = 0; i < selection.length; i++) {
          orders.push(selection[i][OB.Constants.ID]);
        }
        
        // Create the PopUp
        isc.OBEXAPP_ParameterPopup.create({
          orders: orders,
          view: view,
          params: params,
          actionHandler: 'org.openbravo.client.application.examples.ManualProcessActionHandler'
        }).show();
      },
    ...

And finally, in the server side, we have just to retrieve the date parameter
in our action handler as it is done with the rest of the data sent:

    
    
     
      final String date = jsonData.getString("dateParam");

###  Read Only and Display Logic

Columns implementing Manual UI processes can have read only logic. In case the
process supports multi record, the button will be clickable if all the
selected records comply the expression.

In the same way, fields for these processes can have display logic. If the
process is multi record, it will be displayed only in case all selected
records satisfy the expression.

For example:

  * Lets add display logic to the subtract button, not to be shown in case the total is empty or 0, to prevent negative totals. In the field the display logic would be: 
    
        @EM_Obexapp_Total@!'' & @EM_Obexapp_Total@>0

  * And lets put read only logic to hide sum button when total is 5. In the column for sum button, read only logic would be: 
    
        @EM_Obexapp_Total@!'' & @EM_Obexapp_Total@>4

###  Security

By default, in the same way as the rest of processes, access to execute these
processes is granted by access to the window containing them.

It is possible to change this behavior setting a _ Secured Process  _
preference.

Retrieved from "
http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/How_to_create_a_Manual_UI_Process  "

This page has been accessed 30,357 times. This page was last modified on 28
May 2015, at 07:47. Content is available under  Creative Commons Attribution-
ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  HowTo

**

