![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  How to sell a module

##  Contents

  * 1  Introduction 
  * 2  1\. Register a project in the Openbravo Forge. 
  * 3  2\. Register the extension module in the Central Repository. 
  * 4  3\. Develop the code and package it as a module 
  * 5  4\. Publish the extension in the Central Repository 
  * 6  5\. Register the module as comercial 
  * 7  6\. Collect Revenues 
  * 8  7\. Provide Support 

  
---  
  
####  Introduction

To sell an extension module, you need to first publish it to the Openbravo
Central Repository and then list it in the Openbravo Exchange. Openbravo has
put in place all the infrastructure and processes to support the sales,
support, and maintenance processes for commercial extensions.

Before the commercial extension is generally available, you need to:

####  1\.  Register a project in the Openbravo Forge.

This is where you use the wiki and forum to develop the requirements and
functional specifications. **Do not begin to develop your technical
specifications (for example, establishing DB table names) until you have
completed step 2!**

####  2\.  Register the extension module in the Central Repository.

Before you being coding your commercial module, you **must** register it to
claim your own unique DB Prefix, which is used to avoid naming conflicts and
is required to publish to the Central Repository. **Failure to register your
module prior to starting development means that you will face painful rework
in the event that someone else has already registered the DB Prefix that you
chose!**

####  3\.  Develop the code and package it as a module

Make sure the module is properly marked as _Commercial_ and that you select
the "Openbravo Commercial License" as license type.

####  4\.  Publish the extension in the Central Repository

An extension module that has been marked as commercial will not be publicly
downloadable from the Forge. Those who try will receive an error screen.
Installing from the module management window will also not be possible, until
the next steps have been completed successfully.

####  5\. Register the module as comercial

Make sure you comply with the  following list of pre-requisites  .

To become an Authorized Seller:

  * Sign the Seller Agreement and fill-in the Product Listing Application Form for your commercial extension. These forms are available in the partner portal  here  (log in required).   
Please note that if you are a " **Localizer** " who has already singed the "
**Openbravo Professional Localiser and Seller Agreement** ", there is no need
for you to sign any additional form but the " **Product Listing Application**
" form, " **Exhibit B** ",  
" **Module Identification** " and " **Authorized Seller** " sections.  
Once notified we will list the "Commercial" modules of the Professional
Localization into butler.

  * Please provide the completed (signed and scanned) forms together with a notification that the listing is complete to Openbravo using standard Openbravo support channels (  Support Portal  or  Support Email  ). 

You will be notified when your listing has been reviewed and published. At
this stage users will be able to start buying your commercial module.

  

####  6\. Collect Revenues

Openbravo will collect payments from customers, and act as clearing house for
all parties invoved. On a periodic basis, you will receive the payments
corresponding to the sales of your commercial modules.

####  7\. Provide Support

You need to provide help and answer questions through forums in the Forge. If
your module includes commercial support, Openbravo will forward any issue you
need to fix through your public bug tracking system accessible through the
Openbravo Forge. You need to publish the fixes according to the corresponding
SLAs to the central repository, so that customers can access them through the
modula management window.

  
In case of doubt regarding the business of modularity or the operation of the
Openbravo Exchange  , you can post your questions in the  Openbravo Exchange
Help forum

Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/How_to_sell_a_module  "

This page has been accessed 1,576 times. This page was last modified on 5
February 2019, at 15:45. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  HowTo

**

