---
search:
  exclude: true
---

![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  How to use an Extension Point

##  How to use an Extension Point

Extension Points are execution points that can be set in any PL/SQL Procedure
and that is able to call other PL/SQL Procedures included in any module. This
is useful to extend the functionality of existing procedures that contain such
an extension point. For example, using the **C_Invoice_Post - Finish Process**
Extension Point. It is possible for any module to add a PL/SQL procedure to be
run whenever an Invoice is processed. This has been used in the Advanced
Payables and Receivables module to generate the payment schedule for the
processed invoice.

Extension Points are managed in the window **Application Dictionary || Setup
|| Extension Points** . Here can be defined new extension points and new
PL/SQL procedures attached to existing Extension Points.

There is a complete list of available extension points and the parameters used
in the  Extension Points  document.

###  Procedures

To attach a PL/SQL procedure to an existing Extension Point you must create a
new record in the **Procedures** tab and fill in the field **Procedure** with
the name of the PL/SQL procedure you want to be invoked in the Extension Point
selected.

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_use_an_Extension_Point-0.png){: .legacy-image-style}

Finally define the PL/SQL procedure with the same name defined in the field
**Procedure** and with only one _character varying_ parameter that will
reference the _AD_EP_INSTANCE_ record that contains all the parameter values
used to invoke the PL/SQL procedure. For example all the PL/SQL procedures
attached to the Extension Point **C_Invoice_Post - Finish Process** are
invoked with the following parameters: Record_ID, DocAction, User, Message and
Result. The definition of the PL/SQL and how the parameters are read can be
seen in the following example:

    
    
     
     
    CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION aprm_gen_paymentschedule_inv(p_ep_instance character varying)
      RETURNS void AS
    $BODY$ DECLARE 
     
    p_record_id VARCHAR(60);
    p_message VARCHAR(2000);
    p_docAction VARCHAR(60);
    p_user VARCHAR(60);
    p_result NUMERIC;
     
    --TYPE RECORD IS REFCURSOR;
    Cur_Params RECORD;
     
    BEGIN
     
      FOR Cur_Params IN (
        SELECT *
        FROM ad_ep_instance_para
        WHERE ad_ep_instance_id = p_ep_instance
        ) LOOP
        IF (cur_params.parametername LIKE 'DocAction') THEN
          p_docaction := Cur_Params.p_string;
        ELSIF (cur_params.parametername LIKE 'Record_ID') THEN
          p_record_id := cur_params.p_string;
        ELSIF (cur_params.parametername LIKE 'User') THEN
          p_user := cur_params.p_string;
        ELSIF (cur_params.parametername LIKE 'Message') THEN
          p_message := cur_params.p_text;
        ELSIF (cur_params.parametername LIKE 'Result') THEN
          p_result := cur_params.p_number;
        END IF;
      END LOOP;
     
    -- The code goes here
     
    END ; $BODY$
      LANGUAGE plpgsql VOLATILE
      COST 100;

There is a loop to obtain all the parameters, this loop iterates for all the
defined parameters. Here notice that the parameter is identified by
_parametermame_ which matches the defined parameter in the Extension Point and
depending on its type the actual value is stored in one of the following
columns: _p_string_ , _p_number_ or _p_date_ .

After the Extension Point attachement has been defined and the PL/SQL
procedure has been created it will be executed under the conditions the
Extension Point has been defined in the  Extension Points  document.

Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/How_to_use_an_Extension_Point
"

This page has been accessed 9,949 times. This page was last modified on 4
September 2011, at 09:26. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  HowTo

**

