---
search:
  exclude: true
---

![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  How to Restrict the Movements of Nodes in a Tree

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-guides/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |
This feature is available from **Openbravo PR14Q2**  
---|---  
  
##  Contents

  * 1  Introduction 
  * 2  CheckTreeOperationManager class 
    * 2.1  Overwriting the checkNodeMovement method 
    * 2.2  Associating a CheckTreeOperationManager with a particular tree 
  * 3  Example: Organization Tree 

  
---  
  
##  Introduction

The  Tree Grid View  allows to move a node to another parent or to another
position within its current parent node.

Some trees might have some restrictions on how a node can be moved to another
position of the tree. For instance, the Organization tree does not allow to
move a node if it belongs to an organization that is ready, and the Menu tree
does not allow to move a node if it belongs to a menu item whose module is not
in development.

Developers can restrict the node movements or a particular tree by subclassing
the CheckTreeOperationManager class.

##  CheckTreeOperationManager class

###  Overwriting the checkNodeMovement method

The  CheckTreeOperationManager  is an abstract class that exposes one method:

    
    
      public abstract ActionResponse checkNodeMovement(Map<String, String> parameters, String nodeId,
          String newParentId, String prevNodeId, String nextNodeId);

This method checks if a particular node movement is valid. It has the
following paramenters:

  * parameters: parameters sent from the tree grid to the TreeDatasourceService. 
  * nodeId: id of the node being moved. 
  * newParentId: id of new parent of the node being moved. 
  * prevNodeId, nextNodeId: ids of the nodes that will be respectively before and after the node if the movement is valid. 

The checkNodeMovement method returns an object of utility class called
ActionResponse, which has three attributes:

    
    
        private boolean success;
        private String messageType;
        private String message;

The success attribute represents if the node movement is valid. The
messageType and message attributes can be used to show a message in the client
message bar regardless of the validity of the node movement.

The checkNodeMovement method is executed by the  TreeDatasourceService  after
each node movement if a CheckTreeOperationManager has been defined for the
tree the node belongs to. If the checkNodeMovement method returns an
ActionResponse with success = true, then the node movement will be commited
and the node will be shown in the client side in its updated position. If it
returns an Action response with success = false, the node movement will be
canceled and the node will be reverted to its original position in the client
side.

###  Associating a CheckTreeOperationManager with a particular tree

CheckTreeOperationManagers are instantiated using  Dependency Injection  .

All implementations of CheckTreeOperationManagers must be application scoped
and must have the name of the table associated with the tree as a qualifier.
For instance, the CheckTreeOperationManager used for the menu tree has the
following annotations:

    
    
    @ApplicationScoped
    @Qualifier("ADMenu")

##  Example: Organization Tree

In the tree defined for the Organization table, nodes are not allowed to be
moved if they belong to an organization that is set as ready.

This is the complete implementation of its CheckTreeOperationManager:

    
    
    package org.openbravo.service.datasource.treeChecks;
     
    import java.util.Map;
     
    import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;
     
    import org.openbravo.client.kernel.ComponentProvider.Qualifier;
    import org.openbravo.dal.service.OBDal;
    import org.openbravo.erpCommon.utility.OBMessageUtils;
    import org.openbravo.model.common.enterprise.Organization;
    import org.openbravo.service.datasource.CheckTreeOperationManager;
     
    @ApplicationScoped
    @Qualifier("Organization")
    public class OrganizationTreeOperationManager extends CheckTreeOperationManager {
     
      /**
       * Only allows to move a node if it belong to a organization that is not set as ready
       */
      @Override
      public ActionResponse checkNodeMovement(Map<String, String> parameters, String nodeId,
          String newParentId, String prevNodeId, String nextNodeId) {
        Organization organization = OBDal.getInstance().get(Organization.class, nodeId);
        if (organization.isReady()) {
          return new ActionResponse(false, "error", OBMessageUtils.messageBD("OrgIsReady"));
        } else {
          return new ActionResponse(true);
        }
      }
    }

These annotations guarantee that this CheckTreeOperationManager will be used
in order to check if a node movement is valid for the Organization tree:

    
    
    @ApplicationScoped
    @Qualifier("Organization")

The nodeId parameter represents the id of the node being moved. At this point
it is known that the node belongs to the Organization tree. This line obtains
the organization associated with the node based on the nodeId:

    
    
    Organization organization = OBDal.getInstance().get(Organization.class, nodeId);

Once the organization is available, it is easy enough to return a proper
ActionReponse depending on whether the organization is set as ready or not:

    
    
        if (organization.isReady()) {
          return new ActionResponse(false, "error", OBMessageUtils.messageBD("OrgIsReady"));
        } else {
          return new ActionResponse(true);
        }

If a user tried to move a node associated with an organization set as ready,
this message will be displayed in his message bar:

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_Restrict_the_Movements_of_Nodes_in_a_Tree-1.png){: .legacy-image-style}

Retrieved from "
http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/How_to_Restrict_the_Movements_of_Nodes_in_a_Tree
"

This page has been accessed 4,308 times. This page was last modified on 10
March 2014, at 08:49. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  HowTo

**

