---
search:
  exclude: true
---

![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  How to call a stored procedure from the DAL

##  Contents

  * 1  Objective 
  * 2  Notes 
  * 3  Setup a test case 
  * 4  Calling the stored procedures 
  * 5  Explaining the logic 
  * 6  The result 

  
---  
  
##  Objective

This how-to explains calling a stored procedure using the  Data Access Layer
. It assumes you have basic knowledge of the Openbravo Stored Procedure
concept; see  here  for more information.

In this how-to we will call the generate shipments for invoices stored
procedure. The code will be run as a junit testcase. The code can however also
be run inside Openbravo (in a servlet).

All new developments must belong to a module that is not the _core_ module.
Please follow the  How to create and package a module  section to create a new
module.

##  Notes

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-guides/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |

The DAL has been extended with two utility classes which make it easier to
call processes and stored procedures through the DAL:  
  
---|---  
  
  * CallProcess 
  * Call Stored Procedure 

These classes make use of the same database connection as the DAL, in addition
instead of working with String parameters you can work with the java
(primitive) objects directly.

This howto does not make use of the above classes as it gives you a more
detailed description on how to call database level logic directly.

Another interesting read (when doing direct database updates outside of
Hibernate) is the following section in the trouble shooting guide:  changes
not visible in the DAL after calling stored procedure  .

##  Setup a test case

There is a separate how-to on creating test cases using the Data Access Layer
(see  here  ) so we will only give a summary here.

The test case is created inside of the module directory of the new module.
This directory is located inside the modules directory of the Openbravo
development project. To create a new source folder in Eclipse right-click on
the project and select _New_ and then source folder. Note the actual folder
name depends on the java package set for the module.

  

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_call_a_stored_procedure_from_the_DAL-1.png){: .legacy-image-style}

  
In the source folder create a new package called: org.openbravo.howto.query
(right click on the new folder and select New > package). Inside this package
create a java file StoredProcedureTest.java. This file has the following
content:

    
    
    package org.openbravo.howto.spdal;
    
    import org.openbravo.test.base.OBBaseTest;
    
    /**
     * Stored Procedure from DAL howto
     */
    
    public class StoredProcedureTest extends OBBaseTest {
    
      public void testStoredProcedure() {
        setUserContext("100");
    
        // here we will be doing our stuff...
    
        commitTransaction();
      }
    }
    

  
This test case inherits from the  OBBaseTest  class provided by Openbravo. The
OBBaseTest class provides a user context and transaction handling. There is
one test method in the class: testStoredProcedure. This method first selects
the user context. It is possible that this needs to be different for your
installation. The selected user must be allowed to create ProcessInstance
records in the db. The commitTransaction() at the end commits the transaction,
if an exception occurs during the test then this statement won't be executed
and the transaction is automatically rolled back.

You can right-click the java file in Eclipse and then run as > junit testcase,
you should see the greenbar in the junit view:

  

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_call_a_stored_procedure_from_the_DAL-2.png){: .legacy-image-style}

  
This is the main testcase setup. The next section will add some code to the
testcase to call the stored procedure in the correct way.

##  Calling the stored procedures

The main business logic of Openbravo is implemented in stored procedures. Some
stored procedures can be called directly through jdbc. But for other stored
procedures you must first create a special record (the PInstance) and its
related parameters (see  How to develop a stored procedure  ).

This how-to describes how you can create the  ProcessInstance  record and
Parameter  through the DAL and then execute a stored procedure.

Here is the complete method, each part is discussed separately below:

    
    
      public void testStoredProcedure() {
        setUserContext("100");
    
        // get the process, we know that 199 is the generate shipments from invoice sp
        final Process process = OBDal.getInstance().get(Process.class, "199");
    
        // Create the pInstance
        final ProcessInstance pInstance = OBProvider.getInstance().get(ProcessInstance.class);
        // sets its process
        pInstance.setProcess(process);
        // must be set to true
        pInstance.setActive(true);
        pInstance.setRecordID("0");
        // get the user from the context
        pInstance.setUserContact(OBContext.getOBContext().getUser());
    
        // now create a parameter and set its values
        final Parameter parameter = OBProvider.getInstance().get(Parameter.class);
        parameter.setSequenceNumber("1");
        parameter.setParameterName("Selection");
        parameter.setString("Y");
    
        // set both sides of the bidirectional association
        pInstance.getADParameterList().add(parameter);
        parameter.setProcessInstance(pInstance);
    
        // persist to the db
        OBDal.getInstance().save(pInstance);
    
        // flush, this gives pInstance an ID
        OBDal.getInstance().flush();
    
        System.err.println(pInstance.getId());
    
        // call the SP
        try {
          // first get a connection
          final Connection connection = OBDal.getInstance().getConnection();
          // connection.createStatement().execute("CALL M_InOut_Create0(?)");
          final PreparedStatement ps = connection.prepareStatement("SELECT * FROM M_InOut_Create0(?)");
          ps.setString(1, pInstance.getId());
          ps.execute();
        } catch (Exception e) {
          throw new IllegalStateException(e);
        }
    
        // refresh the pInstance as the SP has changed it
        OBDal.getInstance().getSession().refresh(pInstance);
    
        System.err.println(pInstance.getResult());
        System.err.println(pInstance.getErrorMsg());
    
        commitTransaction();
      }
    

##  Explaining the logic

Let's go through the main parts of the method.

This part sets the user which runs the stored procedure. It is possible that
this needs to be different for your installation. The selected user must be
allowed to create ProcessInstance records in the db.

    
    
        setUserContext("100");
    

The following code reads the Process which will be run from the database. In
this case we use Process 199 which is the generate shipment process.

    
    
        final Process process = OBDal.getInstance().get(Process.class, "199");
    

Then create a new  ProcessInstance  instance and set its data:

    
    
        final ProcessInstance pInstance = OBProvider.getInstance().get(ProcessInstance.class);
        // sets its process
        pInstance.setProcess(process);
        // must be set to true
        pInstance.setActive(true);
        pInstance.setRecordID((long) 0);
        // get the user from the context
        pInstance.setUserContact(OBContext.getOBContext().getUser());
    

Note the way the current user is retrieved from the global  OBContext  object.
See also how the process is set in the pInstance.

The process requires a  Parameter  which is created in the following step and
linked to the ProcessInstance (and back):

    
    
        // now create a parameter and set its values
        final Parameter parameter = OBProvider.getInstance().get(Parameter.class);
        parameter.setSequenceNumber("1");
        parameter.setParameterName("Selection");
        parameter.setString("Y");
    
        // set both sides of the bidirectional association
        pInstance.getADParameterList().add(parameter);
        parameter.setProcessInstance(pInstance);
    

The next step is to persist the ProcessInstance, the Parameter will also
automatically be saved because it is a child of the ProcessInstance business
object. Hibernate caches database statements and sends them to the database
when it is most appropriate. However, because we need to know the id (which is
generated by the database) we force a flush of the Hibernate sql statements to
the database. The System.err should print a uuid.

    
    
        // persist to the db
        OBDal.getInstance().save(pInstance);
    
        // flush, this gives pInstance an ID
        OBDal.getInstance().flush();
    
        System.err.println(pInstance.getId());
    

The ProcessInstance has been created with its parameter. Now you need to call
the stored procedure. To accomplish the jdbc connection is retrieved from the
DAL. The connection is the same one used by Hibernate for persisting the
ProcessInstance, this ensure transaction acid behavior.

As the call is done through 'raw' jdbc there is a different syntax for Oracle
and Postgresql. The last step, before executing, is to set the pInstanceId as
a parameter in the PreparedStatement.

    
    
        // call the SP
        try {
          // first get a connection
          final Connection connection = OBDal.getInstance().getConnection();
          // This is the way to call the SP in Oracle 
          // connection.createStatement().execute("CALL M_InOut_Create0(?)");
          
          // This is the correct Postgresql format
          final PreparedStatement ps = connection.prepareStatement("SELECT * FROM M_InOut_Create0(?)");
    
          // Set the ProcessInstance id
          ps.setString(1, pInstance.getId());
          ps.execute();
        } catch (Exception e) {
          throw new IllegalStateException(e);
        }
    

The stored procedure will update the ProcessInstance record in the database
with a result code and an error message. As Hibernate does not detect this
automatically we need to refresh the instance we have in-memory. Then we can
call the methods on the instance to obtain the result:

    
    
        // refresh the pInstance as the SP has changed it
        OBDal.getInstance().getSession().refresh(pInstance);
    
        System.err.println(pInstance.getResult());
        System.err.println(pInstance.getErrorMsg());
    
        commitTransaction();
    

##  The result

The logic has been explained, so let's now run the testcase. Again do run as >
junit testcase (note: you can also do debug as > junit testcase to step
through the code).

You should see an output as follows:

    
    
    FF80818120000E9A0120000EC00B0002
    0
    

The result 0 normally means that an error occurred, however with this stored
procedure it means that no data was processed. Depending on the dataset this
can occur.

If an error occurred then it should be present in the pInstance.getErrorMsg.

Retrieved from "
http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/How_to_call_a_stored_procedure_from_the_DAL  "

This page has been accessed 12,794 times. This page was last modified on 13
August 2014, at 11:24. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  HowTo

**

