---
search:
  exclude: true
---

![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  How to create a New Skin

##  Contents

  * 1  Introduction 
  * 2  Files structure 
    * 2.1  Openbravo 3 
    * 2.2  Openbravo Classic/2.50 
  * 3  Inside Openbravo ERP 
  * 4  Export the module 
  * 5  Package the module 
  * 6  Deploy/Compile the module 
  * 7  Apply the skin 

  
---  
  
##  Introduction

This how-to explains how to create a module that contains a skin (for use in
classic -2.50 based- and 3.00 windows). We will create an example module
called Example Skin, with the Java package name
_org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue_ . It is not mandatory to build both
classic (2.50 based) and 3 skins parts. Each part is independent. NOTE: The
'Login' page customization is included in the classic (2.50 based) side.

For more extensive documentation about Openbravo 2.50 UI components, consult
the  _Look and feel_ article.

For more extensive documentation about Openbravo 3 UI components
personalization, consult the  _Skins_ article.

The latest version of the complete example can be found at:
https://code.openbravo.com/erp/mods/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/

##  Files structure

###  Openbravo 3

Create the following folder structure

    
    
    #openbravo#/modules/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/web/org.openbravo.userinterface.smartclient/openbravo/skins/Blue/
    

Since Openbravo 3 is module based, the recommendation is to add here as many
folders as parts of Openbravo 3 you want to customize. Each file inside each
folder should include ONLY the attributes/properties you want to change Thanks
to that if new material is added to Openbravo 3, it will be also be inherited
in your custom skin. You can always release a new version of your custom skin
introducing the new elements.

Here is a real example of how to manage this folder:
https://code.openbravo.com/erp/mods/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/file/tip/web/org.openbravo.userinterface.smartclient/openbravo/skins/Blue

Create the component provider at

    
    
    #openbravo#/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/src/org/openbravo/userinterface/skin/blue/
    

The component provider is used to load the previous built files. You can find
more information about how component provider works at:  _Openbravo 3
Architecture: Component Provider_

Here is a real example of a skin component provider:
https://code.openbravo.com/erp/mods/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/file/tip/src/org/openbravo/userinterface/skin/blue/ResourcesComponentProvider.java

###  Openbravo Classic/2.50

NOTE: In Openbravo 2.50 the default skin was "Default" skin, but in Openbravo
3 also a new skin called "250to300Comp" has been built to make classic (2.50
based) windows look more like new Openbravo 3 windows

Create the following folder structure

    
    
    #openbravo#/modules/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/web/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/skins/Blue/
    

Create at this location

    
    
    #openbravo#/modules/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/web/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/skins/Blue/*
    

These files (with the content):

Openbravo_ERP.css:

    
    
    @import url(Openbravo_ERP_250.css);

Openbravo_ERP_240.css

    
    
    @import url(Openbravo_ERP_250.css);

Openbravo_ERP_250.css

    
    
    @import url(../../Default/Openbravo_ERP_250.css);
    @import url(../../org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.250to300Comp/250to300Comp/Openbravo_ERP_250.css);

Openbravo_ERP_250_print.css

    
    
    @import url(../../Default/Openbravo_ERP_250_print.css);

Openbravo_ERP_print.css

    
    
    @import url(Openbravo_ERP_250_print.css); 

Now you have to add each class you need to change from the "Default" or
"250to300Comp" skin in your Openbravo_ERP_250.css file or in
Openbravo_ERP_250_print.css file

You have to include also in these added classes ONLY the attributes you want
to change. Thanks to that if new material is added to the "Default" or to the
"250to300Comp" skin, it will be also be inherited in your custom skin. You can
always release a new version of your custom skin introducing the new elements.

If you add/change any image that needs to be flipped to RTL (if it is
selected), you have to add also a file "RTLFlippedImages.txt" with the path of
these images

Here is a real example of how to manage these files:
https://code.openbravo.com/erp/mods/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/file/tip/web/org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/skins/Blue

PD: Remember that you should make changes only in files inside "Blue" folder.

##  Inside Openbravo ERP

  1. Log into Openbravo ERP as System Administrator. 
  2. From the Application dictionary, select **Application Dictionary > Module ** . 
  3. Click **New**
  4. Select the **Module** tab and fill in the following essential fields: 
    * Java Package = org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue 
    * Name = Skin: Blue 
    * Type = Module 
    * Description = Skin that provides the application a blue look&feel 
    * Help/Comment = When you install this module a new skin called 'Blue' is added and applied. To enable it also in classic mode go to "Session Preferences" window. To disable it you have to uninstall it. 
    * Version = 1.0.0 
    * In Development = checked 
  5. You can also fill in the following additional information: 
    * License Type = Openbravo Public License 
    * License text = Licensed under the Openbravo Public License version 1.1. You may obtain a copy of the License at  http://www.openbravo.com/legal/license.html  or in the legal folder of the Openbravo ERP core distribution. 
    * Author = your name (or company name) 
    * URL = your web address (or company web address) 
  6. Click **Save** . 
  7. Select the **Dependency** tab. 
  8. Click **New**
  9. Fill at least the following essential fields as follows: 
    * Dependent Module = Core 
    * First Version = 3.0.13118 (or at least > 3.0.13118) 
    * Dependency Enforcement = Major Version 
  10. Click **Save**

If the skin contains Openbravo 3 based components, also:

  1. Click **New**
  2. Fill at least the following essential fields as follows: 
    * Dependent Module = User Interface Application 
    * First Version = 2.1.13118 (or at least > 2.1.13118) 
    * Dependency Enforcement = Major Version 
  3. Click **Save**
  4. Click **New**
  5. Fill at least the following essential fields as follows: 
    * Dependent Module = Workspace & Widgets 
    * First Version = 2.1.13118 (or at least > 2.1.13118) 
    * Dependency Enforcement = Major Version 
  6. Click **Save**
  7. Click **New**
  8. Fill at least the following essential fields as follows: 
    * Dependent Module = User Interface Selector 
    * First Version = 2.1.13118 (or at least > 2.1.13118) 
    * Dependency Enforcement = Major Version 
  9. Click **Save**
  10. Click **New**
  11. Fill at least the following essential fields as follows: 
    * Dependent Module = Query/List Widget 
    * First Version = 1.0.13118 (or at least > 1.0.13118) 
    * Dependency Enforcement = Major Version 
  12. Click **Save**

If the skin contains Openbravo classic (2.50 based) components, also:

  1. From the Application menu, select **Application Dictionary > Reference ** . 
  2. In grid view, select the **Skin List** record ( **name** column). 
  3. Select the **List Reference** tab. 
  4. Click **New** . 
  5. Complete at least the following essential fields: 
    * Module = Skin: Blue - 1.0.0 - English (USA). 
    * Search Key = org.openbravo.userinterface.skin.blue/Blue 
    * Name = Blue 
    * Select the **Active** checkbox. 
  6. You can also complete other optional fields, such as: 
    * Description = Skin that provides the application a blue look&feel 
  7. Click **Save** . 

##  Export the module

Read this article section:  _How To Create and Package a Module: Exporting a
module_

##  Package the module

Read this article section:  _How To Create and Package a Module: Packaging a
module_

##  Deploy/Compile the module

Read this article section:  _How To Create and Package a Module:
Deploying/Compiling a module_

##  Apply the skin

The Openbravo 3 components will be directly applied. In order to un-apply
them, you should have to disable or uninstall the module.

In order to apply the classic (2.50 based) components, you should:

  1. Log into Openbravo ERP as System Administrator. 
  2. From the General Setup, select **General Setup > Application > Session Preferences ** . 
  3. Select **Theme** : **Blue**
  4. Click **Save Preferences**

Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/How_to_create_a_New_Skin  "

This page has been accessed 19,633 times. This page was last modified on 19
July 2011, at 18:15. Content is available under  Creative Commons Attribution-
ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  HowTo

**

