---
search:
  exclude: true
---

![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  How to Define the Timeout of a Query

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-guides/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |
This feature is available from **PR14Q2**  
---|---  
  
##  Contents

  * 1  Introduction 
  * 2  QueryTimeOutUtil class 
  * 3  Timeout profiles 
  * 4  Example 
  * 5  Limitations 

  
---  
  
##  Introduction

Defining the timeout of a query allows to cancel its execution once a certain
amount of time has passed since it was started. This helps to protect the
database by preventing queries from being stalled.

##  QueryTimeOutUtil class

The QueryTimeOutUtil class provides setQueryTimeOut methods that defines the
timeout of:

  * SQL statements 
  * Hibernate queries 
  * Hibernate criterias (OBCriteria is a subclass of Criteria) 

The first argument of the setQueryTimeOut method is the object whose query
timeout is to be set. The second argument is a string that represents a
timeout profile (see next section).

This class also provides resetQueryTimeOut methods to reset the timeout to 0.

##  Timeout profiles

Query timeouts are defined using timeout profiles. A timeout profile
represents a server-side activity. For instance, the GRID timeout profile,
defined in core, is used by the DefaultJsonDataService in the queries that are
done to retrieve the records that will be shown in the grid.

Query timeouts are declared in the Openbravo.properties file, using the
db.queryTimeout.<profile_name>=#profile_timeout_in_seconds. For instance to
define a new profile called MY_PROCESS with a query timeout of 5 seconds, the
following line must be added to Openbravo.properties:

**db.queryTimeout.MY_PROCESS=5**

If the timeout is set to 0, the queries that use that profile will not have a
limit in its execution time. Core timeout profiles are set to 0 by default.

Openbravo defines in its core these timeout profiles:

  * **db.queryTimeout.grid** : query used to populate the grid of the generated windows 
  * **db.queryTimeout.jsonWebService** : queries used in the JSON REST Webservice 
  * **db.queryTimeout.xmlWebService** : queries used in the XML REST Webservice 
  * **db.queryTimeout.scheduledProcess** : queries executed in scheduled processes 
  * **db.queryTimeout.manualProcess** : queries executed in manual processes 

If you create a process and do not set a query profile for its queries, the
db.queryTimeout.scheduledProcess or db.queryTimeout.manualProcess will be used
by default. You can override these default profiles by executing
QueryTimeOutUtil.getInstance().setQueryTimeOut on your query.

##  Example

Let's suppose a developer is using a query that is bound to be time-consuming,
so he wants to allow specifying a limit in its execution time. The developer
can reuse an existing query profile or create a new one. In this case none of
the existing query profiles applies, so he uses a new one that he calls
MY_TIME_CONSUMING_QUERY.

    
    
    String hql = "update ...";
    Query qry = OBDal.getInstance().getSession().createQuery(hql);
    QueryTimeOutUtil.getInstance().setQueryTimeOut(qry, queryType);
    try {
      qry.executeUpdate();
    } catch (Exception e) {
      if (e instanceof SQLTimeoutException || e instanceof QueryTimeoutException) {
        // Handle query cancelation due to query timeout
      }
    }

If the developer wants to reuse the query object and wants to reset its query
timeout, he should execute this command:

    
    
    QueryTimeOutUtil.getInstance().resetQueryTimeOut(qry);

When the module that contains this code is installed, the query will actually
not have any timeout until the db.queryTimeout.MY_TIME_CONSUMING_QUERY
parameter is added to Openbravo.properties with a value higher than 0.

##  Limitations

In PostreSQL, because of a limitation in the driver this feature is not
available until **3.0PR15Q4** .

Retrieved from "
http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/How_to_Define_the_Timeout_of_a_Query  "

This page has been accessed 10,244 times. This page was last modified on 11
August 2015, at 07:08. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  HowTo

**

