---
search:
  exclude: true
---

![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  How to use a new version of DBSourceManager

##  Objective

DBSourceManager is the tool that Openbravo uses for all its database
management related tasks, and is behind the well known create.database,
update.database, export.database and export.config.script tasks.

In most situations, its functionality is enough to do whatever development
task is needed. However, Openbravo keeps updating it to support more database
features, and fix bugs, and in some cases, it might be convenient to use a
newer version of it to export the development changes to modules before
updating Openbravo.

This document describes how to use the last dbsourcemanager in an earlier
version of Openbravo.

##  How to update DBSourceManager

First, it's necessary to have access to the main branch of Openbravo. From
there, you will get the newest dbsourcemanager files. The branch itself is
here  . You can get the files using Mercurial:

hg clone  https://code.openbravo.com/erp/devel/main  openbravo

The process is simple, you just need to copy the following files from the main
branch and replace the corresponding ones from your Openbravo instance with
them:

  * src-db/database/lib/dbsourcemanager.jar 
  * src-db/database/build.xml 
  * src-db/database/model/excludeFilter.xml 

After you've copied the files, you can use the normal database tasks
(update.database, export.database, ...), and they will be using the new
dbsourcemanager.

Retrieved from "
http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/How_to_use_a_new_version_of_DBSourceManager  "

This page has been accessed 5,474 times. This page was last modified on 27
June 2011, at 07:36. Content is available under  Creative Commons Attribution-
ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  HowTo

**

