![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  How to Change Fonts in Openbravo Reports

**Languages:** |

** English  ** |  Translate this article...  
  
---|---  
  
##  Contents

  * 1  Objective 
  * 2  Recommended articles 
  * 3  Execution Steps 
    * 3.1  Changing the font in Jasper Reports 
    * 3.2  Changing the font in FOP Reports 
  * 4  Result 

  
---  
  
##  Objective

The objective of this article is to show you how to change the fonts used in
**Openbravo Reports** . This can be useful in two cases:

  * We want to create our reports with a prettier or more readable appearance 
  * Some character sets like Japanese, Arabic or Vietnamese cannot be be displayed or printed out with the fonts used by default in the standard reports, so replacing the default font for one   
that supports those character sets is the solution to properly display the
reports in those languages.

##  Recommended articles

Before reading this guide, it is necessary to have a proper understanding of
Openbravo's  Modularity  concept and how to  create and package a module  ,  
as we take the knowledge from these articles as a given in this guide.

In case you are working with reports on a regular basis, the following link to
an article might be of interest to you, since it describes  how to create a
report  .

##  Execution Steps

Openbravo uses two different tools to create reports:

  * **Jasper Reports**
  * **FOP**

With this, we need a different approach for each tool to change the font of
the reports being generated by them. Both approaches will of course be
explained here:

###  Changing the font in Jasper Reports

When changing the font in **Jasper Reports** , the software ** Jaspersoft
Studio  ** will be very helpful.

In the following  link  you can find a detailed tutorial that describes how to
handle custom fonts in Jaspersoft Studio. In short, these are the steps we
need to carry out:

  * 1\. Get the desired font's .ttf file from your pc or from the Internet. 
  * 2\. Create the Font Extension, go to **Window > Preferences **

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_Change_Fonts_in_Openbravo_Reports-0.png){: .legacy-image-style}

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_Change_Fonts_in_Openbravo_Reports-1.png){: .legacy-image-style}

View larger

  * 3\. Click on **JasperSoft Studio > Fonts ** . Click **Add** . At this point you must provide a unique name for the Font Extension and the path to its extension by selecting the path of the downloaded .ttf file. 
  * 4\. Once done, we set a PDF Encoding type for our new font in the wizard. 
  * 5\. We now have to change the fontName and pdfFontName used in the text fields we want to have being displayed with the new font in our report. We can accomplish that by either using Jaspersoft Studio or making changes directly in the .jrxml file using a text editor. 
  * 6\. And, for our document(s), we shouldn't forget to to choose the same PDF Encoding type as the one we set for our font in step 4. 
  * 7\. Export the font into a .jar file. Once again, Jaspersoft Studio can lend us a hand with doing this: Go to **JasperSoft Studio > Fonts ** and this time click **Export** . Select the font and export it into a .jar file. 
  * 8\. We have to create a new module to keep the .jar file. Inside our module folder we must create a subfolder **"/lib/runtime"** and put the exported .jar file in there. 

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_Change_Fonts_in_Openbravo_Reports-2.png){: .legacy-image-style}

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_Change_Fonts_in_Openbravo_Reports-3.png){: .legacy-image-style}

View larger

  * 9\. Stop tomcat 
  * 10\. Execute: 
    
        ant smartbuild

  * 11\. Restart tomcat 

###  Changing the font in FOP Reports

Not every report in Openbravo is designed as a .jrxml report. For example, the
Price List Report  is generated using ** FOP  ** . The approach to change the
font in this kind of reports is different; we don't need to change the report
definition but make use of the **FOP configuration file** . These are the
steps we must follow:

  1. Get the desired font's .ttf file from your system or download it from the Internet. For example: _DejaVuSans.ttf_

  2. The _.fo reports_ used in Openbravo use the _Helvetica_ font by default. To replace this font with the new one, we will modify the **config/userconfig.xml** file as explained  here  . So, we just add this new xml source snippet inside the ** <configuration> ** tags of the **userconfig.xml** file: 
    
        <fonts>
    <renderers>
      <renderer mime="application/pdf">
       <fonts>
         <font embed-url="/home/openbravo/DejaVuSans.ttf" kerning="yes"> 
           <font-triplet name="Helvetica" style="normal" weight="normal"/> 
           <font-triplet name="Helvetica" style="normal" weight="bold"/> 
           <font-triplet name="Helvetica" style="italic" weight="normal"/> 
           <font-triplet name="Helvetica" style="italic" weight="bold"/>
          </font> 
        </fonts>
      </renderer>
    </renderers>

Note that in this case we have our font placed in the path: _/home/openbravo_
.

  3. Execute: 
    
        ant smartbuild

  4. Restart tomcat 

After this change, all **.fo reports** in the application will use the
_DejaVuSans_ font instead of _Helvetica_ .

##  Result

Following screenshots show the results after successfully carrying out the
steps mentioned above:

First, we have a **Jasper Report** , where the font of the title has been
replaced with another font:

|

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_Change_Fonts_in_Openbravo_Reports-4.png){: .legacy-image-style}

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_Change_Fonts_in_Openbravo_Reports-5.png){: .legacy-image-style}

View larger

|  
---|---|---  
  
And last, we have a **FOP Report** with the default font replaced:

|

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_Change_Fonts_in_Openbravo_Reports-6.png){: .legacy-image-style}

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/how-to-
guides/How_to_Change_Fonts_in_Openbravo_Reports-7.png){: .legacy-image-style}

View larger

|  
---|---|---  
  
Retrieved from "
http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/How_to_Change_Fonts_in_Openbravo_Reports  "

This page has been accessed 13,725 times. This page was last modified on 22
December 2017, at 16:28. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Categories  :  Templates  |  HowTo

**

