![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  Category:Concepts

The Openbravo Fundamentals and Concepts sections give a very detailed
description of basically all relevant Openbravo development concepts.

It is good to start with the  overview  section, to get a feel for the main
philosophies which form the basis of Openbravo technology. The  development
section gives a detailed description of the main development topics such as
the required  prerequisite  knowledge, the  development project structure  and
the coding conventions we use ourselves (  java  and  javascript  ). Don't
forget the  tips and tricks  section which can be very valuable at times.

The  application dictionary  topics describe the core of the Openbravo model
driven development approach. All developments take place within modules and
are delivered as part of modules. The  modularity section  describes the
underlying principles and concepts in detail.

The remaining sections of the concepts section follow the Openbravo
architecture:

  * Database  : Openbravo automatically configures and creates the database schema for you, the database section discusses all relevant topics related to this part of the application. 
  * Middle tier  : the main component here is the data access layer 
  * Web tier  : discusses skinning, alerts, deep linking and other topics related to the front end 
  * Web services  : for integrating Openbravo with other systems and other web frontends, both XML and JSON are supported 

##  Contents

  * 1  Overview Concepts 
  * 2  Development Concepts 
  * 3  Application Dictionary 
  * 4  Modularity 
  * 5  Database 
  * 6  Middle Tier 
  * 7  Web Tier 
  * 8  Web services 

  
---  
  
##  Overview Concepts

Several pages in the Openbravo Fundamentals and Concepts section are more
overview-like, they give you a quick (but thorough) overview of the Openbravo
technology and architecture:

  * Main_Development_Concepts 
  * Openbravo_3_Architecture 
  * Modularity_Concepts 

##  Development Concepts

The development concepts topics describe the development steps and the main
build steps, everything which is relevant when using and working with a
developers toolset:

  * Prerequisite_Knowledge 
  * Development_Model 
  * Development_Project_Structure 
  * Development_Build_Tasks 
  * Java_Coding_Conventions 
  * Cluster_Development_Guidelines 
  * JavaScript_Coding_Conventions 
  * Client_Side_Development_and_API 
  * Common_Issues_Tips_and_Tricks 
  * Code_Review_Process 

##  Application Dictionary

The application dictionary is the key component in the Openbravo  model driven
development  approach. The application dictionary is where Openbravo ERP
stores the definition for the whole system. For example tables, windows, tabs
and their relationships are stored in the application dictionary.

The application dictionary is converted to code and other software artifacts
by the WAD and the template/rendering engines.

  * Data_Model 
  * Multi-Client_and_Multi-Org 
  * Standard_Windows 
  * Tables 
  * Element_and_Synchronize_Terminology 
  * Dynamic_Expressions 
  * Application_Menu 
  * Messages 
  * Reports 
  * Processes 
  * Alerts 
  * Model_Object_Mapping 

##  Modularity

All Openbravo development takes place within modules, it is critical to
understand Modularity:

  * Modularity_Concepts 
  * Datasets 
  * Merging_Modules 

##  Database

The DB Fundamentals section describe specifics when developing the database
side of Openbravo. It discusses all relevant parts from creating tables,
constraints to stored procedures.

  * DBSourceManager 
  * Constraints_and_Triggers 
  * ExtensionPoints 
  * PL-SQL_code_rules_to_write_Oracle_and_Postgresql_code 

##  Middle Tier

This part of the Openbravo Developers Guide discusses the middle-tier
framework components. The main component in the Openbravo middle-tier is the
Data Access Layer. The DAL makes it easier to develop business logic running
on the middle-tier.

Background process scheduling makes it possible to run business logic
independent from the UI at pre-set times. The background processes and other
code makes use of standard utilities provided by Openbravo ERP.

  * Data_Access_Layer 
  * Security_Model 
  * Processes 
  * Attachments 

##  Web Tier

The Openbravo web tier section combines all topics related to visualization of
Openbravo. It discussing skinning, formatting, authentication etc.

  * Client_Side_Development_and_API 
  * Skins 
  * Format.xml 
  * Alerts 
  * Authentication 
  * Deep_Linking 
  * Reports 

##  Web services

Openbravo ERP provides a set of robust CRUD webservices in different
technologies: JSON REST and XML REST webservices. The webservices work
according to the REST principles and make it very easy to perform CRUD-like
operations through webservice calls. All Openbravo tables/entities can be
accessed through the Openbravo webservices.

  * JSON_REST_Web_Services 
  * XML_REST_Web_Services 

##  Pages in category "Concepts"

The following 46 pages are in this category, out of 46 total.

###  A

  * Alerts 
  * Application Menu 
  * Attachments 
  * Authentication 

###  C

  * Client Side Development and API 
  * Cluster Development Guidelines 
  * Code Review Process 
  * Common Issues Tips and Tricks 
  * Constraints and Triggers 

###  D

  * DBSourceManager 
  * Data Access Layer 
  * Data Model 
  * Datasets 
  * Datasources 
  * Deep Linking 
  * Development Build Tasks 

|

###  D cont.

  * Development Model 
  * Development Project Structure 
  * Dynamic Expressions 

###  E

  * Element and Synchronize Terminology 
  * ExtensionPoints 

###  F

  * Format.xml 

###  J

  * JSON REST Web Services 
  * Java Coding Conventions 
  * JavaScript Coding Conventions 

###  M

  * Main Development Concepts 
  * Merging Modules 
  * Messages 
  * Model Object Mapping 
  * Modularity Concepts 
  * Multi-Client and Multi-Org 

###  O

  * Openbravo 3 Architecture 

|

###  P

  * PL-SQL code rules to write Oracle and Postgresql code 
  * Prerequisite Knowledge 
  * Processes 

###  R

  * Reports 
  * Reports obsolete 

###  S

  * SQLC 
  * Security Model 
  * Selectors 
  * Skins 
  * Standard Windows 

###  T

  * Tables 

###  U

  * User Interface Design Guidelines 

###  W

  * Widgets 

###  X

  * XML REST Web Services 

|  
---|---|---|---  
  
Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/Category:Concepts  "

This page has been accessed 35,308 times. This page was last modified on 7
March 2017, at 07:56. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  Developers Guide

**

