---
search:
  exclude: true
---

![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  Code Review Process

##  Contents

  * 1  Overview 
  * 2  Coding is Craftsmanship 
  * 3  Openbravo ERP Code Review Process: Personal, Peer review and Team review 
    * 3.1  Personal Review 
    * 3.2  Peer review 
    * 3.3  Team review 
  * 4  What to Review 
  * 5  Review Statistics 
  * 6  Code Review Tools 
  * 7  Automated Reviews and Bug identification 
  * 8  Checklist 
    * 8.1  Short Checklist (Java) 
    * 8.2  Full Checklist (Java) 
    * 8.3  Properties Files 
    * 8.4  Application Dictionary Checklist 
    * 8.5  Function, Trigger and Views 
  * 9  Links 
  * 10  Appendix: who is the Peer 
    * 10.1  The Owner Peer 
    * 10.2  The Team Lead Peer 
    * 10.3  The Team Member Peer 
    * 10.4  The Second Peer 

  
---  
  
##  Overview

This document gives a description of the Openbravo ERP code review process and
the code review checklist.

The general opinion is that code reviewing is very helpful in finding and
preventing bugs and in transferring knowledge between development team
members. On the other hand traditional (  Fagan-like  ) code reviews are very
time consuming and resource intensive. In addition, standard Fagan like code
reviews fit less to more agile-like development methods and current
development environments with instant compiling and code formatting tools. The
result is that it is difficult, in practice, to organize and implement code
reviewing processes in the dynamic and time-pressed environment of a
development project.

The Openbravo ERP code review process tries to combine the advantages of code
reviewing with a process that is lightweight and easy to organize and control.
The process is very much focused on the code itself and uses the features of
development environments and code checking tools. Using code checking tools
means that code reviewing can be focused on code quality and correctness
instead of code standard conformity.

Before going into further detail it is good to define the goals which we want
to achieve with code reviewing. There are two main goals:

  * Improve the quality of the code: 
    * Ensure correctness (functionally) 
    * Minimize the number of bugs 
    * Prevent intellectual property rights problems 
    * Ensure that the code conforms to agreed coding standards 
  * Let developers share knowledge, learn from each other and improve the understanding of each others' code. 

The Openbravo ERP code review process should be supported by a toolset.
Instead of making an upfront choice for a tool, the envisioned process is
described. The next step is to determine if an existing tool can be chosen or
that a code reviewing tool can be created by customizing current development
tools (svn, mantis, eclipse).

But before describing the code review process, lets first emphasize the role
of the developer in the software development process. Because high quality
code starts and ends with the personal approach and drive of each developer.

##  Coding is Craftsmanship

In many ways a developer can be compared with a craftsman like a carpenter,
mason or even an architect. Coding consists as well of standard plumbing work
as high level design and detailed design activities. Coding software is a
craft which requires discipline and an eye for detail. The devil is in the
detail especially with coding.

It is the developer who is the Author of the code. It is therefore the
developer's responsibility to take pride in writing Good and Clean code: code
that runs, code that is readable, elegant, easy to read, easy to adapt,
efficient. This is especially important with open source software: the code is
visible to the world. This puts extra responsibility on a developer. The code
represents Openbravo ERP in the open source and ERP world, it is code which is
used, seen and reviewed by other developers of other companies on many
different countries.

In every few lines of code there are a multitude of design choices which can
be made. Even just a few lines of code can be implemented in different ways:
smart, elegant, efficient, easy to understand, easy to read and adapt, or
complex, abstract, inflexible, bug-ridden. It is the developer who makes the
decision which type of code to write. With the many thousands of lines of code
in Openbravo ERP it is clear how important this is.

The code review process does not have as a goal to limit the developer in his
craftsmanship. The goal is to exchange knowledge, increase capabilities and
support developers in making automatic choices for standard structures. This
allows the developer to spend time and effort to the things which are
important: create elegant, understandable code in a productive way.

##  Openbravo ERP Code Review Process: Personal, Peer review and Team review

The Openbravo ERP code review process consists of three types of reviews: 1)
Personal, 2) Peer and 3) Team reviews.

###  Personal Review

The developer should automatically follow coding conventions and other good
coding practices. To validate this each developer should actively review his
own work. The development system should support the developer in performing
this task.

The following process is proposed:

  * Each developer automatically gets an email with the commits of the day before. 
  * The email contains the full list of files committed in the previous day. Only files which have been sent to be reviewed should be part of this email. 
  * Each file has a hyperlink which opens a web page showing the diff of the commit. The webpage also shows attention points for the developer to look at: 
    * Is the change correct? 
    * Does the change follow the coding conventions? 
  * The developer does not need to fill in a checklist, the personal review should be very lightweight as it is done frequently (daily) 
  * The code reviewing system registers which files have been sent to each developer and registers which files have been opened by the developer to be reviewed. 

The personal review should not be done on the same day as the code was
written. A longer time between the commit and the personal review will result
in a fresher look on the changes made the person himself.

###  Peer review

The peer review is the most important review as it operates on two goals:
issue prevention and knowledge transfer (from the reviewer to the reviewee).

An important question is who is the peer, who will review the code. In the
Openbravo ERP code review process the peer reviewer is the team lead of the
scrum team.

The advantage of the team lead peer is that he understands the functionality
the team is working on. He can therefore judge if changes are correct in
respect to the functionality the team is working on. In addition the team lead
has direct contact with team members. Also code reviewing is more part of the
standard team activities and can be planned. As the team lead is an
experienced developer, code reviewing results in knowledge transfer from the
team lead to less experienced team members.

The team lead peer approach has as disadvantage that the team lead might get
overloaded with review activities. Another disadvantage of a team lead peer is
that he might feel less ownership for overall source files and can possibly
not determine if code changes interfere with other (unchanged) parts of the
code.

The commits by the team lead himself should also be reviewed. Therefore each
team lead also has a personal reviewer assigned to him.

The peer review process consists of the following steps:

  * A developer commits one or more files to subversion. 
  * A review is triggered (through the commit) and an email is send to the reviewer. The email contains the following information: 
    * The description of the commit message and the committer name and email address 
    * The list of files changed and the amount of lines changed per file 
    * If the commit was for one or more Mantis issues then the hyperlinks to these issues are also present in the email 
    * A hyperlink to start the review process 
  * The reviewer clicks on this hyperlink and is taken to the a webpage. The webpage shows: 
    * The commit message, committer name and email address. 
    * If the commit is a bugfix: a hyperlink to the Mantis bug(s) of the solution 
    * The list of files changed with for each file a hyperlink to the diff and checklist page (see below). 
  * The reviewer clicks for each file on the diff/checklist page. He is taken to a next page which shows the commit info in the header and the following information: 
    * The diff 
    * List of commits done on the file since the commit triggering this review, hyperlinks to the diffs of these other commits. 
    * Hyperlink to the full current version of the file 
    * The checklist applicable for that file, the reviewer has to check each point on the checklist 
    * A reject button: if the reviewer clicks this button then the committer needs to rework the file. The reviewer must enter a remark when rejecting a file. 
    * An approve button 
  * The reviewer fills in the checklist or enters a comment and clicks on reject. The committer is notified that he should change/update the file. If the file is approved then no mails are send. 
  * When the last file has been accepted or rejected then the review task is finished. 

**All peer reviews should have been done before a branch can be merged with
trunk.**

###  Team review

Each scrum team should spend at least 45 minutes a week on a team review. In
the team review one (part of) a file is discussed with the complete team
together. The main purpose of the team review is to share knowledge about code
and coding practices. The to-be-reviewed file is proposed by the team lead.
The team lead informs the rest of the team which file will be discussed and
each team member spends 15 minutes for doing a personal review of the file.

In the team review meeting the author of the file presents the code and gives
a walkthrough. The review meeting should be an exchange of ideas and
discussion of implementation strategies. The goal is to share ideas and
knowledge and not so much to find bugs or non-conformance to standards.

##  What to Review

The following files are reviewed:

  * Java files. 
  * Properties templates files. 
  * Properties files and XML files in the _src_ folder. 
  * The content of the Application Dictionary tables (the AD_TABLE.xml etc.). 
  * The content of the functions, triggers and views XML files. 

Only committed changes are reviewed. This means that everyone is free to
commit without pre-review. This is as it is now. The commit is the trigger of
the review.

However not all commits need to be reviewed. The following rules apply. Every
commit is reviewed, except:

  * A commit with only a limited number of changes per file is not reviewed. For example less then 5 characters (to correct a typo) 
  * A commit with only comment changes is not reviewed. 
  * A commit with a specific comment which prevents reviews: 'No review required'. This makes it possible for a committer to signal that a certain commit really does not need a review. Per committer, the number of commits with this remark is checked in the statistics (see below). 

Different types of files will require different types of review checklist. The
proposal is to have different checklists for different files:

  * A short Java checklist for small changes (less than five lines of code). 
  * A full Java checklist for all other Java changes. 
  * A checklist for properties/properties.templates file. 
  * A checklist for application dictionary tables. 
  * A checklist functions, triggers and views XML file. 

The checklists are discussed below in more detail.

##  Review Statistics

For management purposes the code review system should register and display the
following information:

  * Total closed, open, declined reviews. 
  * Per reviewer: closed, open, declined reviews. 
  * Per reviewer: number of committed files, number of files personally reviewed. 
  * Per committer: closed, open, declined reviews, number of commits explicitly set to "No review required". 
  * The top 100 files which have not been reviewed, the top 100 most reviewed files. 

##  Code Review Tools

There are different tools available which can be used and adapted for the flow
described above. If the decision is made to use an external tool then a proof-
of-concept needs to be planned to try one out.

A choice can also be to implement and support the above flow with a custom
developed web application integrated with svn and Mantis. Mantis can be used
as the registration of review tasks and results. For example a Mantis bug can
be used to start a review task. A rejected review can create a Mantis issue
assigned to the committer. The result of a review can be attached to the
Mantis issue.

The advantage of developing our own toolset is that it prevents yet-another-
tool in the development and systems management environment.

Here  you can find a template sheet to perform code reviews.

##  Automated Reviews and Bug identification

The manual review process is supported with the following tools which perform
automatic code reviewing:

  * Eclipse compilers and warnings settings: the standard  Openbravo ERP settings  should be used. 
  * FindBug  . 
  * CheckStyle  . 
  * PMD  . 

##  Checklist

There are different checklists for different situations. Each checklist is
short to be effective, referring to external documents for more information.

A list of topics to review can be found  here  .

###  Short Checklist (Java)

  * Do you understand what changes have been made and why they have been made? 
  * Do the changes correctly implement the required functionality? 
  * Does the code adhere to the  coding conventions  ? 

###  Full Checklist (Java)

  * Do you understand what changes have been made and why they have been made? 
  * Do the changes correctly implement the required functionality? 
  * Does the change interfere with other code/functionality? 
  * Does the code adhere to the  coding conventions  ? 
    * Check for these topics: copyright statement, documentation, exception handling, Java 1.5 constructs, don'ts 
  * Is the code readable and understandable, i.e. skimmable? 
  * Has the code been formatted according to the agreed coding format? 
  * Has the developer used defensive coding practices? 
  * Does Eclipse show any warnings in the code? 
  * Intellectual Property: 
    * Does the commit contain a new external Library? If so has the legal advisor checked the license? 
    * Does the commit contain third-party code? Is so, has the third-party contributor signed a contributor agreement and has it been deposited with the Openbravo Finance Department? 

###  Properties Files

  * Does the change interfere with other parts of the properties file? 
  * Are new properties documented, has the change been communicated to other developers? 

###  Application Dictionary Checklist

  * Is the naming of tables and columns correct, in English? 
  * The javapackage of the table is set correctly? 
  * Have the correct types been chosen? Have foreign keys been set? 

###  Function, Trigger and Views

[TBD]

##  Links

  * http://www.review-board.org/ 
  * http://www.developer.com/tech/article.php/3579756 
  * http://www.methodsandtools.com/archive/archive.php?id=66 

##  Appendix: who is the Peer

The main review activities are done as part of peer review. An important
question is therefore who is the peer who will review the code.

###  The Owner Peer

The Owner Peer approach means that the source code of Openbravo ERP is divided
in different parts and each part is assigned to one owner of that code. The
owner of each part is responsible for reviewing the changes to the code made
by other developers.

The owner should be someone with experience and an eye for code quality. He
should have full understanding of the coding conventions. In addition the
owner should understand the functionality implemented by his part of code. He
should feel responsible for his code.

The owner peer approach has as advantage that the reviews are done by a person
knowing the overall code (of his assigned part). He can detect when code
changes conflict with the broader meaning of the code. Also because the owner
peer is an experienced developer he can be more effective in sharing his
knowledge with less experienced developers whose code changes are being
reviewed.

The main disadvantage of an owner peer approach is that the owner peer is not
involved in every project/scrum team that makes changes to his part. Therefore
it can be more difficult to understand/follow the reason why code changes are
made.

###  The Team Lead Peer

The team lead can also act as the peer. The advantage of the team lead peer is
that he understands the functionality the team is working on. He can therefore
judge if changes are correct in respect to the functionality the team is
working on. In addition the team lead has direct contact with team members.
Also code reviewing is more part of the standard team activities and can be
planned. As the team lead is an experienced developer, code reviewing results
in knowledge transfer from the team lead to less experienced team members.

The team lead peer approach has as disadvantage that he might get overloaded
with review activities. Another disadvantage of a team lead peer is that he
might feel less ownership for overall source files and can possibly not
determine if code changes interfere with other (unchanged) parts of the code.

###  The Team Member Peer

In this approach the work of a member of a team is reviewed by another member
of that team. The advantage of this approach is that team members exchange
knowledge and that team members together grow in their experience and
knowledge level. Doing code reviews can help to more quickly develop
developers skills. Another advantage is that the review work is divided.

The disadvantage is that also inexperienced developers will do reviews which
will probably result in less effective reviews.

###  The Second Peer

Also the work of a peer reviewer should be reviewed. Therefore every peer
(team lead or owner) should have a second peer assigned to him.

Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/Code_Review_Process  "

This page has been accessed 8,890 times. This page was last modified on 7
March 2017, at 08:00. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  Concepts

**

