---
search:
  exclude: true
---


![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  Development Model

##  Contents

  * 1  Introduction 
    * 1.1  Document explanation 
  * 2  Concepts 
    * 2.1  Database Model 
    * 2.2  Application Dictionary 
    * 2.3  XML model 
    * 2.4  Source code 
    * 2.5  Binaries 
    * 2.6  Database 
    * 2.7  Apache Ant 
    * 2.8  Eclipse IDE 
    * 2.9  Mercurial 
    * 2.10  Deploy modes 
  * 3  Source code structure 
  * 4  Database code management 
    * 4.1  Introduction 
    * 4.2  DBSourceManager 
    * 4.3  How it works 
    * 4.4  Different types of data 
  * 5  Development process 
    * 5.1  Initial installation 
    * 5.2  Local developments 
      * 5.2.1  Build 
      * 5.2.2  Database exportation 
    * 5.3  Remote developments 
    * 5.4  Validate Database 
    * 5.5  Validate Module 
    * 5.6  Test Ant Tasks 
  * 6  Core, modules and customizations 

  
---  
  
###  Introduction

The **Openbravo Development Environment** (abbreviated as **ODE** ) is a
**framework of tools, methodologies and processes to make Openbravo
development process easier** and to **help developers to be more efficient in
tasks such as editing source code, debugging, testing, deploying and managing
code repositories** . ODE supports both Oracle and PostgreSQL based on
environments. ODE is designed to support the development process for whatever
the intent is (Openbravo core contributions, modules and custom code) and
whatever the scope is (from small bug fixes to complete new functional
modules).

####  Document explanation

One of the primary goals for ODE is to use open and popular (de-facto
standard) tools and practices whenever it is possible. Some of the tools that
ODE is based on are _Apache Ant_ , _Eclipse IDE_ and _Mercurial_ . The
**Concepts** section introduces these tools which are required to understand
how ODE performs. You can skip this section if you are familiar with these
tools.

Next section describes the  **Openbravo source code structure** : sub-projects
within Openbravo source code and folder structure for each of them. After that
there is a further explanation about the way  **Openbravo manages database
source code** that is a central part of ODE and is done in a very innovative
and elegant way.

Next section is a guide addressed to developers about  **how to perform all
the development tasks** such as building from sources or committing changes to
the repository.

The last section explains specifics about the three possible development
intents:  **Openbravo core contributions, modules and custom code** .

###  Concepts

Before starting with the development process let's explain some basic concepts
to better understand the rest of the document.

####  Database Model

It contains the structure of all the database elements used in Openbravo:
tables, triggers, views, sequences and functions. The Database Model is part
of the XML model.

####  Application Dictionary

The application dictionary is the part of the source code of Openbravo stored
in the database. It is a set of declarative definitions of business elements
an logic that are used to build and render the application. For example it
contains the definion of windows, tables, forms, reports, processes, etc. It
is stored in _AD_ tables such as _AD_Window_ or _AD_Column_ and is part of the
XML model.

For a further explanation of the application dictionary and all the
definitions included go to the  _Application Dictionary_ article.

####  XML model

The XML model contains the database schema and the Database Model and the
Application Dictionary. In order to ease concurrent developments this
information can be exported from database to plain XML files. These files
maintain all the information required to generate the database and populate it
with all data in Application Dictionary. It is stored in a neutral language
compatible with the two database engines supported by Openbravo: PostgreSQL
and Oracle.

The synchronization from database to the XML model and vice versa is managed
by the  _DBSourceManager_ .

####  Source code

It is where all the information required to build the whole Openbravo system
is. It includes the Database Model, the Application Dictionary, generated
entiy classes, core classes to manage the system as well as java code,
javascript code, html, reports and other files to implement functionality that
complements the Application Dictionary.

####  Binaries

During the build process all Java classes in the system are compiled and
transformed to binary files. These binary files can be packaged and deployed
to a J2EE application server like Tomcat.

####  Database

In the Database is stored the Application Dictionary as well as user's data

####  Apache Ant

Apache Ant  is a Java-based build tool. Openbravo automates most of its
development tasks using Apache Ant.

####  Eclipse IDE

Openbravo source code is Eclipse IDE ready. This means that the  setup of
Openbravo source code within Eclipse IDE  is optimized to be done in a very
few steps.

####  Mercurial

Mercurial  is a distributed SCM which facilitates multiple developers to work
in the same code managing revisions for each source code file. Openbravo
source code is maintained and freely available in the  _Openbravo source code
repositories_ . So modifications in source code can be done in your local
mercurial repository or come from other -external- repositories, this must be
taken into account when building the system.

####  Deploy modes

Openbravo is a web application that runs in a Servlet Container. This means
that to build the system it needs to generate the binaries from source code
and to deploy the binaries into a Servlet Container, usually Apache-Tomcat.
Openbravo build tasks can be configured to manage the deployment in three
different modes:

**class**

     _class_ deployment mode copies the compiled Java classes and all necessary files to the Openbravo Context folder within the Servlet Container where the application is served from. Using this deployment mode the application is automatically deployed when the system is built. 
**war**

     _war_ deployment mode generates a war file with the whole application. This file can afterwards be deployed on the server. Note that using this deployment mode the application is not automatically deployed when the system is built, but the war file needs to be manually deployed. 
**none**

     When Openbravo is compiled all the necessary files to be run in the server are copied to _WebContent_ directory. It is possible to set the server to serve from this directory, which is the standard way to work from Eclipse IDE. In this case Eclipse will manage the deployment. 

The deploy mode is set in the  Openbravo.properties  file, by the
_deploy.mode_ property.

###  Source code structure

The source code of Openbravo is structured in different folders:

  * **config** : Here go all the configuration files of Openbravo. The most important file is **Openbravo.properties** that contains all the deployment options and database connection properties. 
  * **legal** : Here go the Openbravo licence and the licence files of all the third party components used by Openbravo. 
  * **lib** : All the libraries files go in this folder. Libraries are separated between **lib/build** , libraries needed only to perform build tasks and **lib/runtime** libraries needed in runtime and during performing build tasks. 
  * **modules** : All the modules installed or in development with all its artifacts go in each own subfolder inside **modules** . 
  * **referencedata** : The standard and sample data stored in XML files go in this folder. 
  * **src** : This is the main folder for all the core source code file and resources. 
  * **src-core** : Source files and resources of the library **openbravo-core.jar** go. 
  * **src-trl** : Source files and resources of the library **openbravo-trl.jar** go. 
  * **src-wad** : Source files and resources of the library **openbravo-wad.jar** go. 
  * **src-util** : This folder is used for the Build Validation, Module Scripts and Diagnostic components needed to perform maintenance tasks for Openbravo an modules. 
  * **src-db** : This go the source files and resources of the DBSourceManager tool and also the files of the Databasase Model and Application Dictionary. 
  * **src-gen** : In this folder go all the DAL entity generated java classes. 
  * **src-test** : In this folter go all the source files and resources of the tests. 
  * **web** : This is where all static web files are located like javascript files, images, skins, ... 
  * **WebContent** : This is where all the files needed to deploy Openbravo are copied when executing the building tasks. An application server can serve the Openbravo application directly from here or a package file can be built from here to be deployed. 

###  Database code management

####  Introduction

Openbravo source code is made of two different _types_ of code: **source
code** ( _Java_ , _JavaScript_ , _CSS_ , _HTML_ ... files) and **database
code** . Database code can be separated into DDL statements of **Database
Model** (tables, triggers, views, sequences and functions) and **Application
Dictionary** .

When Openbravo is installed, a database (Oracle or PostgreSQL) is created by
executing the DDL statements, application dictionary data is inserted and code
is generated. Once the database is created, custom ERP data are added to the
database (products, business partners, orders, invoices, ...). Those data are
stored by the database in binary files mixed with the Database Model and the
Application Dictionary.

New developments (bug fixes or new features) usually include changes in both
source code and database code . There are **two major problems** with the
generic exported database dump, especially when wanting to include it in a
source code repository:

  1. **It is not easy to get a detailed and clean description of your development changes** since the _dump_ ( _*.dmp_ ) file is a binary file and not a text one. Hence, _diff_ statement does not work well on binary files. 
  2. **It is not possible to update a production environment by deploying the changes in the source code** . Instead, a database script needs to be prepared that performs the _alter_ and _update_ statements required in order to keep customer data that is already in the database. 

####  DBSourceManager

DBSourceManager is based on  DdlUtils  a small, easy-to-use component by
Apache Foundation for working with Database Definition (DDL) files. These are
**XML files** that contain the definition of the database schema (e.g., tables
and columns). These files can be feed into DBSourceManager via their
corresponding **Ant task** in order to create or alter the database. In the
same way, DBSourceManager can generate a DDL file from an existing database.
**Openbravo has extended several DdlUtils capabilities** (for instance,
support for check constraints, procedures and views; PL/SQL translation from
Oracle to PostgreSQL; support for more database types, ...) and fine tuned
others (for instance, export database schema objects, ...) to fully support
ODE requirements.

####  How it works

Each Openbravo system (working copy) has  a folder called _database_ where all
the **database code** (Database Model and Application Dictionary) are stored
in **plain XML text files** . Source code in plain XML files inside the
_src/database_ folder is divided into:

  * **model** Database model. 
  * **sourcedata** Application dictionary. 

**Changes to the database can happen in 2 places** :

  1. **Inside _src-db/database_ folder ** (working copy): 
    1. Through updates coming from the Mercurial repository. When changes come from a Mercurial update, they do not overwrite changes done in the working copy since these changes are merged within the plain XML files. 
  2. **Inside the database** : 
    1. Editing the Application Dictionary using the Openbravo Application Dictionary windows and processes. 
    2. Performing changes In the Database model (tables, procedures, ...) using your favourite database management tool (PGAdmin, SQL Developer, TOAD, etc...). 

ODE provides the following **tasks to synchronize the database XML files with
the database** itself:

  * **create.database** task: first reads the Database Model XML files inside _src-db/database/model_ folder and creates schema objects in the Oracle or PostgreSQL database. After that, this task fills the database with the Application Dictionary taken from _src-db/database/sourcedata_ folder. **Keep in mind that this task re-creates the database from scratch which means that the existing database will first be dropped!**
  * **update.database** task: compares the Database Model and the Application Dictionary stored in the database with the XML files inside the _src-db/database/model_ and _src-db/database/sourcedata_ folders. Differences are applied to the database, keeping custom ERP data (products, business partners, orders, invoices, ...) in the database untouched. 
  * **export.database** task: takes the Database Model and Application Dictionary stored in the database and overwrites the XML files inside the _src-db/database/model_ and _src-db/database/sourcedata_ folders. 

As you can imagine, whenever any of these tasks are executed, **both models
(the one inside _src-db/database_ folder and the database itself) are forced
to be identical ** . The first two tasks modify the database so that it is
equal to _src-db/database_ folder content and the third one overwrites the
_src-db/database_ folder content to equal it to the database.

In summary, the _src-db/database_ folder contains Openbravo database source
code (plain XML files) clearly separated from custom ERP data (products,
business partners, orders, invoices, ...). This way, the database is not
distributed as a binary dump file anymore.

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |
**Important note** :

Because changes to the database can happen within the text files or the
database itself, it is extremely **important to guarantee that these changes
do not happen simultaneously to both sides** because this situation would lead
to system inconsistency and loss of data. This is guaranteed by using a check
based on the **Mercurial revision number** . Each time _create.database_ or
_update.database_ tasks are launched, revision number of the working copy is
saved into the database. _export.database_ task checks that the revision
number of the working copy matches with the revision number of the database.
If it matches, there is a guarantee that changes in our database will not
overwrite changes done by other developers in the database XML files . If it
does not, the developer will get an error and will be forced to switch the
working copy to the current database revision number.  
  
---|---  
  
####  Different types of data

The default installation of Openbravo will install different data sets
resulting in a complete workable system. The previous section already touched
on this topic. Within Openbravo we distinguish the following information:

  * sourcedata: this is the Application Dictionary information. Data of tables ad_tables, ad_columns, ad_windows go here. This can be extended through modules (modules can add information here), and is updated on each Core update (through update.database). Application Dictionary data can be found in the src-db/database/sourcedata folder. 
  * referenceddata: this is information referenced by sourcedata, data of tables ad_client, ad_org, ad_user, ad_language, or ad_role. The Openbravo database cannot be created without this information (the referencial integrity of the database would be compromised without it), and this explains why it is treated in a special way. It is not updated on each Core update. This data is located in the src-db/database/sourcedata/referenceddata folder. 
  * standard: this is information which is not needed to create the database, but it's really convenient for every user, like document types, document templates, ... This is also not updated on each Core update. This data is located in the referencedata/standard folder. 
  * sampledata (): this is sample information we provide for the users to test openbravo, and contains a new client, with its corresponding business information. This data is located in the referencedata/sampledata folder. 

This data is installed/loaded into the database when installing Openbravo.

###  Development process

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Development_Model-1.png){: .legacy-image-style}

This section explains the most common way of developing Openbravo and which
build tasks should be used for each case. In most of the cases it is only
necessary to use 3 tasks ( _install.source_ , _smartbuild_ and
_export.database_ ). There are a number of other tasks that can be used but
they are not required for the standard process. They are explained in the
_Development Build Tasks_ article.

The main task for the standard process is **smartbuild** which performs an
incremental build of the system -only the modified components are rebuilt- as
explained below. This task accepts two optional properties: _local_ for local
or remote developments which by default is set to _yes_ and _restart_
indicating if after the build process tomcat should be restarted with _no_ as
default value.

Local is used as a hint to the build task to let it know if there have been
database changes coming from other developers through a pull of the Mercurial
repository so it is needed to apply those changes to the database in the local
instance. A developer working locally in her/his instances performs all
database changes directly in the database so there is no need to update the
database to build the system. But if the developer has just done a Mercurial
pull then it is likely that other developers have done changes in the XML
database files so it is needed to update the database with those changes.

Smartbuild is an incremental process and avoids any task that is not needed.
When development is local, smartbuild can skip the update of the database. In
any case developers are allowed to update their database from XML files at any
time.

####  Initial installation

After downloading the Openbravo source files (for example from a clone
repository using Mercurial) the next step is to install and deploy the system.

First you have to properly configure all the required properties. All of them
are stored in the _ Openbravo.properties  _ file, that **you have to configure
properly before going ahead** .

After all properties are configured, the following step is to build the
application from source code and deploy it. All this is done by the
**install.source** task. This task creates the database, inserts sample data
on it and compiles and deploys the application accordingly with the deployment
mode chosen. To execute it just type in the Openbravo root directory:

    
    
    ant install.source

####  Local developments

Once Openbravo is up and running it is possible to develop on it. Generally,
new developments should be done through modules, further explanations about
how to develop modules can be found in the  Modularity article  .

The standard way for developing locally consists on:

  * Develop/modify windows, tabs, etc through the Application Dictionary. 
  * Create/modify database objects directly in database. 
  * Develop/modify windows editing html, xml, javascript and java files. 

#####  Build

Once your changes are done and before you test them it is necessary to build
the application. You can do an incremental build by just executing (from
command line):

    
    
    ant smartbuild

Remember that by default smartbuild considers only local changes so it does
not synchronize the database from the XML files ( _update database_ is
skipped).

This task generates and compiles the sources for the modified elements, and,
depending on the deploy mode, it also deploys them. It is possible to restart
tomcat from the same task setting the property restart to yes, this would be:

    
    
    ant smartbuild -Dlocal=yes -Drestart=yes # Note the -Drestart=yes 

#####  Database exportation

In most cases developments include modifications in the database. These
modifications can be persisted in the database XML files using the
DBSourceManager  tool. DBSourceManager exports to XML files only the database
changes of modules (including core) that are set as _In Development_ . To
export the database changes execute:

    
    
    ant export.database

####  Remote developments

Remote developments are done by other developers remotely and then are merged
with the local sources. The main difference with local ones is that remote
developments do no modify the database directly. The way a remote development
can change objects in database is using XML files, so after updating (merging)
the XML files it is necessary also to update the database. After updating the
database the process is exactly the same as the local one, this is, compile
and deploy the elements that have been modified since last build. All this
(update the database, compile last modifications and deploy them) can be done
at the same time with the **smartbuild** command:

    
    
    ant smartbuild -Dlocal=no # Note the -Dlocal=no 

The only difference with the local development is in the _local_ parameter
which makes the process to update the database in case the XML files were
changed.

####  Validate Database

When a module is exported using the _export.database_ task it is first
validated to check for common errors. If the validation fails then the
_export.database_ task will also fail and export is not possible.

The following checks are currently done:

  * A table defined in the Application Dictionary should be present in the database and vice versa. 
  * Column definitions in the database and the Application Dictionary are compared, any mismatch is reported. The column datatype, default value and length are checked. 
  * Tables should have a primary key. 
  * Foreign key fields should be part of a foreign key constraint. 
  * Names of tables, columns and constraints are checked for their length (Oracle has a 30 character limit there). 

####  Validate Module

When a module is packaged with the _package.module_ Ant task, then first it is
checked for some common errors. If an error is detected then the
_package.module_ task will fail.

Specifically the following checks are done:

  * A module should depend on the Core module, or depend on a module which depends on the Core module (recursively). 
  * The path inside the _modules/.../src_ directory must correspond to the Java package defined for the module. 
  * The javapackages of the DataPackages which are part of the module must be in line with the Java package defined for the module. So if the module has the Java package org.example, then all Data Packages should have a Java package which starts with org.example. 
  * The license type and text must be set. 
  * If the module is an Industry Template then it must depend on core and the dependency must be set to 'Included'. 
  * If the module adds UI artifacts such as a window or tab then its _Translation Required_ field must be set to yes. 

The module validation can be run separately through this Ant task:

    
    
    ant validate.modules -DmoduleJavaPackage=${javapackageofmodule}

Whereby ${javapackageofmodule} equals the Java package of the module.

####  Test Ant Tasks

Openbravo has a number of Ant tasks for running  JUnit test cases  . The main
one is **run.tests** : _ant run.tests_ will run the tests which are side
effect free.

###  Core, modules and customizations

Openbravo is designed to fulfil all customer requirements whatever they are.
It is done at different levels each one more specific to the customer than the
previous:

  * **Openbravo core** : common functionality **without any industry specific** detail that is used for most of the customers. 
  * **Modules** divided in three different types: 
    * **Functional modules and Plugins** : extended functionality (such a HR module) and specific tools or components (such a connection to a remote banking system). More than one module/plugin could be applied to a customer installation. 
    * **Localization packs** : adaptation of Openbravo Core and modules to a country specific operations (translation and specific rules such as chart of account and taxes). 
    * **Industry Templates** : adaptation of Openbravo Core and related modules to a industry specific operations (for example, a vertical for non-profit organizations). Only one _industry template_ can be applied per customer installation. 
  * **Custom code** : customization of Openbravo Core and related modules to completely fulfill customer requirements. 

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Development_Model-2.png){: .legacy-image-style}

So regardless of the scope of a project - just a small bug fix or a large new
functional module - development using ODE can be divided in one of the
following categories:

  1. **Core** A modification of the source code provided by the Openbravo distribution. For contributing to Openbravo core source code by fixing issues or doing core enhacements, please refer to the  contributor's guide  . 
  2. **Module** . A pluggable module that can be packaged independenty from the core of Openbravo, distributed and deployed to other Openbravo installations. For building modules that extend Openbravo Core capabilities, please refer to the  modularity documentation  . 
  3. **Customization** . To **fit some customer requirements** sometimes is needed to update the Openbravo core source code that cannot be packaged in a module. For making customizations, please also refer also to the  modularity documentation  . 

**Customer's production deployment** can therefore consist of **several
elements** listed above such as bug fixes, module plugins, new features, etc.

Regardless of the objective, the development process' base is a **source code
repository** updated from different sources. ODE will keep track of the source
for each change, but all of them will be managed in the same standard way.

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Development_Model-3.png){: .legacy-image-style}

This figure also explains the dependency tree in Openbravo. **Openbravo core**
is completely **independent from modules and custom code** . A module depends
on Openbravo core and other modules it might be based on. Custom code depends
on Openbravo core and on all the modules the customer has installed.

The  development process  is identical for all of the categories described
above.

Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/Development_Model  "

This page has been accessed 24,979 times. This page was last modified on 5
February 2021, at 06:29. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  Concepts

**

