![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  Development Project Structure

##  Contents

  * 1  Introduction 
  * 2  Project Structure 
    * 2.1  build 
    * 2.2  config 
    * 2.3  docs 
    * 2.4  legal 
    * 2.5  lib 
    * 2.6  modules 
    * 2.7  referencedata 
    * 2.8  src 
    * 2.9  src-core 
    * 2.10  src-db 
    * 2.11  src-util 
    * 2.12  src-gen 
    * 2.13  src-test 
    * 2.14  src-trl 
    * 2.15  src-wad 
    * 2.16  srcAD 
    * 2.17  temp 
    * 2.18  web 
    * 2.19  WebContent 

  
---  
  
##  Introduction

This document describes the structure of an Openbravo ERP development project.
Openbravo ERP has a tree directory structure that logically divides different
core components (XmlEngine, SQLC, HttpBaseServlet) and WAD (Wizard for
Application Dictionary) from the ERP itself (forms, reports, call-outs,
combos, processes and so on).

##  Project Structure

The following image provides a snapshot of the Openbravo ERP development
project structure.

    
    
     openbravo  
       |-build
       |-config
       |-docs
       |-legal
       |-lib
       |-modules
       |-referencedata
       |-src
       |-src-core
       |-src-db
       |-src-gen
       |-src-test
       |-src-trl
       |-src-util
       |-src-wad
       |-srcAD
       |-temp
       |-web
       |-WebContent
    

###  build

The **build** directory contains the _classes_ sub-folder where all of the
compiled Java classes are copied to after executing the ant compilation build
tasks . Also, the Java source code that is generated from the applications
***.xsql** files during the **sqlc** phase of the project build is written to
the _javasqlc_ sub-folder.

    
    
      |-build
         |-classes
            |-org
               ...
         |-javasqlc
            |-src
            |-srcAD
    

###  config

The **config** directory contains the Openbravo ERP configuration files. The
config directory is where the setup script is downloaded to and executed from.
Other configuration files in the config directory include the application
properties file, Openbravo.properties, which is generated after running the
setup process, and logging and scheduling properties files (log4j.lcf and
quartz.properties). In this folder there are several .template files
(Openbravo.properties.template, Format.xml.template, log4j.lcf.template, ...),
which need to have their corresponding files (  Openbravo.properties  ,
Format.xml  , ...) for Openbravo to work correctly.

    
    
      |-config
         |-log4j.lcf
         |-Openbravo.properties
         |-quartz.properties
         |-...
    

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |  Starting
from **PR19Q1** log4j.lcf files have been replaced for log4j2's config files
log4j2.xml, log4j2-web.xml and src-test/src/log4j2-test.xml  
---|---  
  
###  docs

The **docs** directory contains Openbravo's API documentation, which can be
generated using the  Javadoc  tool. This documentation can be generated by
executing the command _ant generate.java.doc_

###  legal

The **legal** directory contains a collection of licenses for the various
libraries that Openbravo ERP utilizes.

###  lib

The **lib** directory contains all of the Java jar libraries used throughout
the application. It is split into build and runtime, **build** containing the
libraries used during compilation of Openbravo ERP, and **runtime** containing
the jar files that are used during the application's execution.

    
    
     |-lib
        |-build
        |-runtime
    

###  modules

The **modules** directory is where any modules that you may have installed or
developed are located. Each module has a top level directory named according
to the Java package specified in its module description, and then below, a
similar layout to the core development structure, which is in itself a module.
When developing a module in the application dictionary, when the module is
exported, it will be exported here to the modules directory.

    
    
     |-modules
        |-org.openbravo.examples.helloworld
           |-src
              ...
           |-src-db
              |-database
                 |-model
                 |-sourcedata
           |-web
               ...
           |-lib
             |-runtime
             |-build
    

Above is the structure of a sample module.

In Openbravo 3, there are several modules inside the modules/ folder which are
now part of the standard distribution.

###  referencedata

The **referencedata** directory contains implementation specific reference
data such as accounting structures, reports, product lists or price lists etc.
Reference data modules are a convenient way to load reference data into
Openbravo ERP. More information about this can be found  here

    
    
      referencedata
         |-sampledata
         |-standard
    

###  src

The **src** directory is the top level directory of the main source code base
for the Openbravo ERP project. It contains the source code for all of the
components that make up the core Openbravo classic web application windows,
and also services, including forms, reports, call-outs, combos, Data Access
Layer (DAL), processes, manual windows, xsql and HTML files, reports etc.

    
    
      |-src
         |-org
            |-openbravo
               |-authentication
               |-base
               |-dal
               |-erpCommon
                  |-ad_actionButton
                  |-ad_callouts
                  ...
                  |-ad_reports
               |-erpReports
               |-scheduling
               |-services
    

The ad_ prefix (in erpCommon folders/packages) denotes Application Dictionary.
The directory name endings are pretty much self-explanatory. The difference
between ad_reports and erpReports lays in the way we access a report within
the application. If it's accessible directly through the menu, then it should
be in ad_reports. On the other hand some windows (Invoices, orders, etc.) have
a Print icon in the toolbar, which generates a report. These reports should be
stored in erpReports.

###  src-core

The **src-core** directory contains the source code of the core components:
XmlEngine (View),  SQLC  (Model), HttpBaseServlet (Controller) and
ConnectionPool.

    
    
      |-src-core
         |-src
            |-org
               |-openbravo
                  |-base
                     ...
                     |-HttpBaseServlet.java
                     |-HttpBaseUtils.java
                     ...
                  |-data
                     |-Sqlc.java
                  |-database
                  |-exception
                  |-utils
                  |-xmlEngine
    

###  src-db

The **src-db** directory contains the dbsourcemanager library. It also
contains the **database** directory which is where all of the model data
(structure: tables, constraints, procedures and triggers), sample data
(Openbravo ERP data such as products, business partners and so on) and source
data (windows and tabs metadata) in plain *.xml files are located.

    
    
      |-src-db
         |-build
         |-database
            |-lib
                |-dbsourcemanager.jar
            |-model
            |-sourcedata
    

###  src-util

The src-util folder contains the diagnostics tool, the buildvalidations, and
the modulescripts. The **diagnostic** directory contains the code/tool to
execute a diagnostic test on your configuration and report any problems or
items you have not configured correctly. The diagnostic tool is executed using
the _ant diagnostic_ task from the root openbravo directory. You can find more
information about what build validations and modulescripts are, and how to
create one,  here  .

    
    
     src-util
       |-buildvalidation
       |-diagnostics
         |-build
         |-config
         |-src
         |-WebContent
       |-modulescript
    

###  src-gen

The **src-gen** directory contains the DAL model objects generated from the
Openbravo model (tables, columns, references etc.) the during the ant
generate.entities task.

    
    
      src-gen
         |-org
            |-openbravo
               |-model
    

###  **src-test**

The **src-test** directory contains the test source code, such as JUnit test
and suites.

    
    
      src-test
         |-src
           |-org
             |-openbravo
               |-test
                  |-ant
                  |-base
                  |-dal
                  |-expression
                  ...
    

###  src-trl

The **src-trl** directory contains the source code of the code which generates
entries in the database for every translatable string in html, jrxml, fo and
srpt files.

    
    
      |-src-trl
         |-src
            |-org
               |-openbravo
                  |-translate
    

###  src-wad

The **src-wad** directory contains the source code of WAD (Wizard for
Application Dictionary), which is used to generate classic window files from
Application Dictionary window definition information.

    
    
      |-src-wad
         |-src
            |-org
               |-openbravo
                  |-wad
    

###  srcAD

The **srcAD** directory contains all of the automatically generated code from
the Application Dictionary.

###  temp

Temporary folder containing files which are not committed to Mercurial. It is
created only when needed, for example, when obx files are downloaded from the
Central Repository.

###  web

The **web** directory contains all of the web resources such as cascading
style sheets (CSS), Javascript code, images and pop-up windows.

    
    
     web
      |-images
      |-js
      |-popups
      |-skins
    

###  WebContent

Is the web output folder for Eclipse, the output folder defines the webapp
used by the Eclipse Tomcat integration. Contains WEB-INF (with web.xml and
other important files) and META-INF.

Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/Development_Project_Structure
"

This page has been accessed 16,326 times. This page was last modified on 13
November 2018, at 11:48. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  Concepts

**

