---
search:
  exclude: true
---

![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  JavaScript Coding Conventions

##  Contents

  * 1  Introduction 
  * 2  Linting and Formatting 
    * 2.1  Standalone scripts 
    * 2.2  Running npm script directly 
    * 2.3  Git hooks 
      * 2.3.1  Set hooks globally 
    * 2.4  Mercurial hooks 
    * 2.5  Using JSLint and JSBeautifier (before PR19Q3) 
  * 3  Code Formatting 
    * 3.1  Spaces instead of Tabs 
    * 3.2  Curly Braces 
    * 3.3  Variable Declaration 
    * 3.4  Array and Object Initializers 
    * 3.5  Single Quotes 
    * 3.6  Function Declaration 
    * 3.7  Function Arguments 
    * 3.8  Naming files 
    * 3.9  Return object 
  * 4  Tips and Tricks 
    * 4.1  True and False Boolean Expressions 
    * 4.2  Conditional (Ternary) Operator (?:) 
    * 4.3  && and || 

  
---  
  
##  Introduction

This document is based on  Google's JavaScript Style Guide  and Douglas
Crockford's  Code Conventions for the JavaScript Programming Language

##  Linting and Formatting

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |  To use
these new tools, it is required to have  nodejs/npm  installed in your machine  
---|---  
  
ESLint  and  Prettier  are the tools used in Openbravo to format check
Javascript code. For convenience, has bundled some scripts in order to use
these tools, either as standalone scripts and as Mercurial hooks to check the
code before commiting it.

  

###  Standalone scripts

  * ESLint: 

Running the jslint script without parameters passes the linter to all non-
ignored .js files in the project, scanning first the files in core and all
modules that has no special ignore rules (i.e. that has a .eslintignore file
in the root of the module).

    
    
    ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jslint/jslint

Adding the -f flag, ESLint will try to fix all warnings/errors that can be
autofixed:

    
    
    ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jslint/jslint -f

Finally, one or more files paths can be added to run ESLint for those specific
files.

    
    
    ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jslint/jslint modules/org.openbravo.client.application/web/org.openbravo.client.application/js/utilities/ob-utilities.js modules/org.openbravo.client.application/web/org.openbravo.client.application/js/utilities/ob-utilities-date.js

  * Prettier: 

Running the jsformatter script without parameters passes the formatter to all
non-ignored .js files in the project, scanning first the files in core and all
modules that has no special ignore rules (i.e. that has a .prettierignore file
in the root of the module).

    
    
    ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jsformatter/jsformatter

Adding the -w flag, instead of checking whether the files are formatted,
performs the actual formatting and writes them in their corresponding files:

    
    
    ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jsformatter/jsformatter -w

Finally, one or more files paths can be added to run Prettier for those
specific files.

    
    
    ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jsformatter/jsformatter modules/org.openbravo.client.application/web/org.openbravo.client.application/js/utilities/ob-utilities.js modules/org.openbravo.client.application/web/org.openbravo.client.application/js/utilities/ob-utilities-date.js

###  Running npm script directly

Note that if your IDE supports npm, the following can be used as well to check
your code:

  * ESLint 

    
    
    npm run jslint modules/org.openbravo.client.application/web/org.openbravo.client.application/js/utilities/ob-utilities.js

  * Prettier: 

    
    
    npm run jsformat -- --check modules/org.openbravo.client.application/web/org.openbravo.client.application/js/utilities/ob-utilities.js

or, if you want to check a whole module:

    
    
    npm run jsformat -- --check 'modules/org.openbravo.mobile.core/**/*.js'

###  Git hooks

For using these tools as Git hooks, run this command from inside an openbravo
repository:

    
    
    git config core.hooksPath .githooks

To hook this script to another repository, copy the .gitHooks to that repo and
run the same command.

If you want this hooks in external/retail modules, **from inside modules/
<name-of-module> ** , execute:

    
    
    git config core.hooksPath ../../.githooks

Note: Those scripts use realpath bash command to check between staged and
unstaged changes. If not installed(it is by default on most systems) hooks
will only check files in their current state, not differentiating between
staged and unstaged changes.

####  Set hooks globally

It is possible to set those git hooks globally for all git repositories. This
means .githooks will be executed on any commit in all your git repositories
locally.

    
    
    git config --global core.hooksPath /absolute/path/to/.githooks

Example (assuming myHooks dir contains .githooks):

    
    
    git config --global core.hooksPath /home/openbravo/myHooks/.githooks

If for any reason you want to remove this configuration execute the following:

    
    
    git config --global --unset core.hooksPath

###  Mercurial hooks

For using these tools as Mercurial hooks, add the following at the end of
**.hg/hgrc** :

    
    
    [hooks]
    pretxncommit= ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jslint/jslint-hg
    pre-commit = ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jsformatter/jsformatter-hg

Or the following if working in a module:

    
    
    [hooks]
    pretxncommit= ../org.openbravo.client.kernel/jslint/jslint-hg
    pre-commit = ../org.openbravo.client.kernel/jsformatter/jsformatter-hg

Note: You can hook the script to another mercurial hooks. See  this link  .

###  Using JSLint and JSBeautifier (before PR19Q3)

In older versions of Openbravo,  JSLint  and  JSBeautifier  are the tools you
should use if you're developing JavaScript. Openbravo has in place a wrapper
scripts to check the code before committing it. You just need to open the
**.hg/hgrc** in your working copy and add at the end of the file:

    
    
     
    [hooks]
    pretxncommit= ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jslint/jscheck-hg
    pre-commit = ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jsbeautify/jscheck-btfy-hg

If you work in a custom module then from MP31 for JSLint and from 16Q3 for
JSBeautifier, there are another scripts which you should use, add hooks like
these in the hgrc file in the .hg directory in your module:

    
    
     
    [hooks]
    pretxncommit = ../org.openbravo.client.kernel/jslint/jscheck-module-hg
    pre-commit = ../org.openbravo.client.kernel/jsbeautify/jscheck-btfy-module-hg

You also can execute these scripts for js files in openbravo using these
comands:

    
    
    //Execute this in openbravo root folder to check all js files
    ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jslint/jslint
    ./modules/org.openbravo.client.kernel/jsbeautify/jscheck-btfy
     
    //Execute this in module root folder to check jsbeautify in all js files of your module
    ../org.openbravo.client.kernel/jsbeautify/jscheck-btfy-module

##  Code Formatting

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |  Starting
from **PR19Q3** , Javascript code is formatted using  Prettier  . The
following conventions still applies, but check  Prettier rationale  for some
of the choices they made regarding formatting.  
---|---  
  
###  Spaces instead of Tabs

Configure your editor to use **2 spaces instead of tabs** .

###  Curly Braces

Because of implicit semicolon insertion, always start your curly braces on the
same line as whatever they're opening. For example:

    
    
     
    if (something) {
      // ...
    } else {
      // ...
    }

###  Variable Declaration

A single var statement is preferred. All the variables in a function **must**
be declared on top of the function.

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Bulbgraph.png){: .legacy-image-style} |  Why do I
need to declare the variables on top of the function? Check  JavaScript
Hosting explained  
---|---  
  
It is a good coding practice to initialize variables when you declare them. So
we must to to declare and initialize in one coding line all vars of the
function. Using this convention we will define all vars at the top of the
function and we will "set" the type of the var adding more info to it.

    
    
     
    function f() {
      var a = 0,
          b = '',
          c = null;
    }
     
    function f() {
      var i = 0, j = 1; // Just one var
      // {...}
    }
     
    function x() { 
      var i = 0; // one var statement per variable is discouraged
      var j = 0;
      // {...}
    }
     
    // Variables on top of the function
     
    function z() {
      var i, j, k;
      // {...}
    }
     
    function s() {
      var i;
      for (i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
        // do something
      }
      // {...}
      var j; // Variable declaration in the middle of a function is discouraged
    }

###  Array and Object Initializers

Single-line array and object initializers are allowed when they fit on a line:

    
    
     
    var arr = [1, 2, 3];  // No space after [ or before ].
    var obj = {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3};  // No space after { or before }.

Multiline array initializers and object initializers are indented 2 spaces,
just like blocks.

    
    
     
    // Object initializer.
    var inset = {
      top: 10, // Notice the space after the colon
      right: 20,
      bottom: 15,
      left: 12
    };
     
    // Array initializer.
    this.rows_ = [
      '"Slartibartfast" <fjordmaster@magrathea.com>',
      '"Zaphod Beeblebrox" <theprez@universe.gov>',
      '"Ford Prefect" <ford@theguide.com>',
      '"Arthur Dent" <has.no.tea@gmail.com>',
      '"Marvin the Paranoid Android" <marv@googlemail.com>',
      'the.mice@magrathea.com'
    ];
     
    // Used in a method call.
    OB.ViewManager.openView('_140', {
      command: 'DEFAULT'
      icon: 'Window'
      id: '180'
      tabId: '180'
      tabTitle: 'Product'
      viewId: '_140'
      windowId: '140'
    });

###  Single Quotes

A string can be defined with single or double quotes. For consistency, single
quotes are preferred.

    
    
     
    var s = 'Openbravo 3 is great!';

###  Function Declaration

All functions should be declared before they are used. Inner functions should
follow the var statement. This helps make it clear what variables are included
in its scope.

There should be no space between the name of a function and the ( (left
parenthesis) of its parameter list. There should be one space between the )
(right parenthesis) and the { (left curly brace) that begins the statement
body. The body itself is indented four spaces. The } (right curly brace) is
aligned with the line containing the beginning of the declaration of the
function.

    
    
     
    function outer(c, d) {
      var e = c * d;
     
      function inner(a, b) {
        return (e * a) + b;
      }
     
      return inner(0, 1);
    }

If a function literal is anonymous, there should be one space between the word
function and the ( (left parenthesis). If the space is omited, then it can
appear that the function's name is function, which is an incorrect reading.

    
    
     
    someObj = {
      method: function () {
        return this.datum;
      },
      datum: 0
    };

###  Function Arguments

When possible, all function arguments should be listed on the same line. If
doing so would exceed the 100-column limit, the arguments must be line-wrapped
in a readable way. To save space, you may wrap as close to 100 as possible, or
put each argument on its own line to enhance readability. The indentation may
be either four spaces, or aligned to the parenthesis.

    
    
     
    // Four-space, wrap at 100.  Works with very long function names, survives
    // renaming without reindenting, low on space.
    OB.foo.bar.doThingThatIsVeryDifficultToExplain = function (
        veryDescriptiveArgumentNumberOne, veryDescriptiveArgumentTwo,
        tableModelEventHandlerProxy, artichokeDescriptorAdapterIterator) {
      // ...
    };
     
    // Four-space, one argument per line.  Works with long function names,
    // survives renaming, and emphasizes each argument.
    OB.foo.bar.doThingThatIsVeryDifficultToExplain = function (
        veryDescriptiveArgumentNumberOne,
        veryDescriptiveArgumentTwo,
        tableModelEventHandlerProxy,
        artichokeDescriptorAdapterIterator) {
      // ...
    };
     
    // Parenthesis-aligned indentation, wrap at 80.  Visually groups arguments,
    // low on space.
    function foo(veryDescriptiveArgumentNumberOne, veryDescriptiveArgumentTwo,
                 tableModelEventHandlerProxy, artichokeDescriptorAdapterIterator) {
      // ...
    }
     
    // Parenthesis-aligned, one argument per line.  Visually groups and
    // emphasizes each individual argument.
    function bar(veryDescriptiveArgumentNumberOne,
                 veryDescriptiveArgumentTwo,
                 tableModelEventHandlerProxy,
                 artichokeDescriptorAdapterIterator) {
      // ...
    }

###  Naming files

Files name must be only in lower case and dash to separate words. Some servers
are not case sensitive and spaces are a bad idea.

_**Example:** _

_Wrong: LoginModel.js, cashUpWIndow.js..._

**Right: login-model.js, cashup-window.js...**

###  Return object

Functions which returns an object will return a variable instead of the
object. Returning a variable well named will help us to understand better what
is returned (together with the function name) and will be also more readable.
There is no need of creating a variable to return if we won't "work" with that
object. Coding, we usually create a var to return because we will assign some
values to that object but if the functions will return a new object we can do
it directly, see some examples:

    
    
     
    function myFunction (){
      var myObject =  {};
      myObject.time = new Date();
      myObject.total = getNet() + getTax();
      if(total > 0){
        myObject.isNegative = false;
      }else {
        myObject.isNegative = true;
      }
      return myObject;
    }
     
    function myFunction (){
      return {name: getName(), address: getDefaultAddress() + getCountry()};
    }

##  Tips and Tricks

###  True and False Boolean Expressions

The following are all **false** in boolean expressions:

    
    
     
      null
      undefined
      '' // the empty string
      0  // the number

But be careful, because these are all **true** :

    
    
     
      '0'  // the string
      []   // the empty array
      {}   // the empty object

This means that instead of this:

    
    
     
    while (x != null) {

you can write this shorter code (as long as you don't expect x to be 0, or the
empty string, or false):

    
    
     
    while (x) {

And if you want to check a string to see if it is null or empty, you could do
this:

    
    
     
    if (y != null && y != '') {

But this is shorter and nicer:

    
    
     
    if (y) {

**Caution:** There are many unintuitive things about boolean expressions. Here
are some of them:

    
    
     
      Boolean('0') == true
      '0' != true
      0 != null
      0 == []
      0 == false
      Boolean(null) == false
      null != true
      null != false
      Boolean(undefined) == false
      undefined != true
      undefined != false
      Boolean([]) == true
      [] != true
      [] == false
      Boolean({}) == true
      {} != true
      {} != false

###  Conditional (Ternary) Operator (?:)

Instead of this:

    
    
     
    if (val != 0) {
      return foo();
    } else {
      return bar();
    }

you can write this:

    
    
     
    return val ? foo() : bar();

###  && and ||

These binary boolean operators are short-circuited, and evaluate to the last
evaluated term. **||** has been called the 'default' operator, because instead
of writing this:

    
    
     
    function foo(opt_win) {
      var win;
      if (opt_win) {
        win = opt_win;
      } else {
        win = window;
      }
      // ...
    }

you can write this:

    
    
     
    function foo(opt_win) {
      var win = opt_win || window;
      // ...
    }

** && ** is also useful for shortening code. For instance, instead of this:

    
    
     
    if (node) {
      if (node.kids) {
        if (node.kids[index]) {
          foo(node.kids[index]);
        }
      }
    }

you could do this:

    
    
     
    if (node && node.kids && node.kids[index]) {
      foo(node.kids[index]);
    }

or this:

    
    
     
    var kid = node && node.kids && node.kids[index];
    if (kid) {
      foo(kid);
    }

Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/JavaScript_Coding_Conventions
"

This page has been accessed 20,264 times. This page was last modified on 27
January 2021, at 12:34. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  Concepts

**

