![](skins/openbravo/images/social-blogs-sidebar-banner.png){: .legacy-image-style}

######  Toolbox

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Main Page  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Upload file  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} What links here  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Recent changes  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Help  
  
  

######  Search

######  Participate

![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Communicate  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Report a bug  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Contribute  
![](skins/openbravo/images/flecha1.jpg){: .legacy-image-style} Talk to us now!  

  

#  Messages

##  Contents

  * 1  Introduction 
  * 2  Types of messages 
    * 2.1  Success messages 
    * 2.2  Failure messages 
    * 2.3  Warning messages 
    * 2.4  Information messages 
  * 3  Application Dictionary definition 
  * 4  Message usage 
    * 4.1  Database 
      * 4.1.1  Processes 
      * 4.1.2  Exceptions 
      * 4.1.3  Checks and Foreign Keys 

  
---  
  
###  Introduction

Messages are used to display information to the user, they are typically shown
when a process is completed or when an event occurs (for example an error).

###  Types of messages

The different types of messages that can be shown with Openbravo are:

  * Success messages 
  * Failure messages 
  * Warning messages 
  * Information messages 

####  Success messages

These messages will be shown after the execution of a process in case of
success.

  

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Messages-0.png){: .legacy-image-style}

####  Failure messages

These messages will be shown after the execution of a process in case of
error.

  

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Messages-1.png){: .legacy-image-style}

####  Warning messages

These messages will be shown when certain conditions have to be taken into
account by the user, as for example a message indicating that there are still
some actions to be processed, etc.

  

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Messages-2.png){: .legacy-image-style}

####  Information messages

These messages will be shown in order to communicate any information to the
user, as for example the functionality of the window, etc.

  

![](/assets/developer-guide/etendo-classic/concepts/Messages-3.png){: .legacy-image-style}

###  Application Dictionary definition

All messages are maintained in the **Application Dictionary || Message**
window ( _ AD_Message table  _ ). Basically a message consists of a _Search
Key_ or value, a _Message Type_ which sets the type of message - the look of
the displayed message (as described in the previous section) depends on that -
and a _Message Text_ containing the text that will be displayed within the
box. Additionally, messages can be translated to different languages. To add
translations to a message use the **Translation** tab.

The _Search Key_ field is a unique identifier for the message, it is not
displayed to the user but it is used internally to identify the message. Thus,
for example, when a java class needs to show a message it is the search key
value used to select the message.

The Search Key field follows the modularity naming rules. Therefore, it has to
start with the module dbprefix, followed by a "_". So a correct value for a
message in the org.openbravo.client.application module would be
_OBUIAPP_MyMessage_

###  Message usage

Depending on the object raising the message, some different considerations
must be taken into account.

####  Database

#####  Processes

As explained in the PL/SQL processes section of this guide, the final result
as well as the message to be shown to the user from a PL process is stored in
the _ AD_PInstance record  _ that was used to invoke it.

This message can be a static string which will be displayed as is in UI:

    
    
     
     AD_UPDATE_PINSTANCE(p_PInstance_ID, v_User_ID, 'N', 1, 'Show this static text');

This kind of message does not make use of the messages defined in _Message_
window. To use them it is necessary to set the message identifier ( _Search
key Value_ ) surrounded by _at_ symbols (@):

    
    
     
     AD_UPDATE_PINSTANCE(p_PInstance_ID, v_User_ID, 'N', 1, '@HR_MyMessage1@');

  
In the line above when the process is finished the application will try to
find a message which value is _HR_Message1_ and it will display the text it
contains. Note that as messages are translatable, if user is logged in the
application with one of the languages the message has been translated to,
he/she will see the text in that language.

Furthermore, it is possible to combine more than one message and static text.
For example:

    
    
     
     AD_UPDATE_PINSTANCE(p_PInstance_ID, v_User_ID, 'N', 1, '@Success@, 5 @LinesCreated@');

This message will concatenate the text in message with identifier _Success_
with the static text ', 5 ' and with the text for message _LinesCreated_ .

All exceptions raised by processes should be caught to manage them and insert
a proper message in _PInstance_

#####  Exceptions

Exceptions are specially useful for triggers, when an exception is raised
within a trigger the current transaction is rolled back. This allows to do
some checks before updating or inserting a row in a table and in case some
verifications are not satisfied an exception can be raised provoking the row
not to be inserted/updated.

**Oracle**

Oracle identifies each error by a numeric code, range between -20000 and
-20999 belongs to custom errors, and using the RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR
procedure they can be associated to a message.

When Openbravo ERP catches one of these errors it tries to find a message with
the same _Search Key_ as the code number, if it exists it will display the
text in the same way as explained in the previous version to replace the
message between at symbols (@) with the matching message.

It is not allowed to use these code numbers to manage messages because:

  * They cannot be defined within modules. As the only identifier they have is a numeric value there's no way to include them in modules without the risk of two different modules using the same number for different purposes. 
  * This is Oracle specific and cannot be used in PostgreSQL, thus they will not work in the same way in PostgreSQL. 

So the correct way to do this is to use a number which has no associated
message and insert within the text the identifier for the message to be used.
With this intention there is not message for value _20000_ , so when it is
used the message will be taken from the second parameter:

    
    
     
     RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR(-20000, '@HR_MyErrorMessage@');

**PostgreSQL**

The only way to identify a message to be displayed when working with Openbravo
in PostgreSQL is identifying it by its _Search Key_ .

    
    
     
     RAISE EXCEPTION '%', '@HR_MyErrorMessage@';

#####  Checks and Foreign Keys

Check restrictions are defined in database to ensure data integrity, they
define some restriction that data must be fulfill. In case when inserting or
updating some data in database it does not satisfy a constraint, an error is
raised.

When a piece of data is tried to be inserted in a table with a check
constraint and that data does not follow the rules defined by that constraint,
a database error is raised. By default, if there is no an Application
Dictionary Message associated to that constraint a generic error message will
be shown in the UI.

It is possible to refine that error by adding a new message with the same
_Search Key_ as the constraint's name. In this case instead of appearing that
generic message, it will be showed the new one.

The same thing applies to Foreign Keys. When data is inserted, modified or
deleted, a foreign key might be violated. In that case, if there is an
specific message for it in the Application Dictionary, it will be shown.
Otherwise, a generic error will be shown.

Retrieved from "  http://wiki.openbravo.com/wiki/Messages  "

This page has been accessed 11,701 times. This page was last modified on 17
April 2013, at 14:54. Content is available under  Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 Spain License  .

  
**

Category  :  Concepts

**

